## 2.7 Cuisine & Dining Customs

*When a wild duck flies straight through your kitchen door, you shouldn’t expect to find leeks on its back as well.*

*— Rokugani Proverb*

Custom is as important in food and dining as it is in all other areas of Rokugani life. Climate and geography are the determining factors for what food crops are available, but culture will influence how they are prepared and—perhaps more importantly—which foods are eaten by the elite and by the lower orders.

As an example of this, consider wheat. Wheat is an adaptable grain that can be grown in much of the Empire, but unlike rice it is almost never eaten as the grain itself. Instead it gets milled into flour and made into noodles and occasionally breads. Noodles come in a wide variety of shapes and sizes, and custom enters in to arbitrate who eats what. The Imperial Families eat very thin noodles made entirely by hand from the finest white flour. The higher ranks of the Crane Clan will eat noodles almost as thin as the Imperials do, whereas Crab of all levels favor thick, hearty noodles called udon. In the Dragon provinces samurai and heimin alike eat noodles made of a blend of wheat and buckwheat flours, buckwheat being even more tolerant of poor growing conditions than normal wheat.

### Raw Materials

Here are the raw materials available to the cooks of the Empire:

- Cereals: Samurai throughout the Empire eat rice as the main part of their diet. Peasants in farming villages are frequently required to turn over all of the rice they grow to their lords, and grow millet or barley for their own use. In the towns matters are more complex. The poor of a town will eat millet or cheap noodles, but wealthy merchants eat rice almost as often as samurai do. Townsmen falling in between those two extremes will eat mixtures of millet and rice; the higher the proportion of rice, the wealthier the family (or the wealthier it wants to appear).

- Wheat is also widely grown, and what doesn’t get turned into noodles is made into bread. Breads fall into three basic types: steamed buns, pancake-like breads made from batters, and flatbreads formed from stiff doughs that are rolled out and cooked on a hot, flat griddle.

- Proteins: Seafood is heavily consumed in all coastal areas, and in inland areas river and lake fish are eaten whenever possible. Poultry is also widely used, both as meat and eggs. Soybeans are another hugely popular source of protein, especially since they can be grown in most parts of the Empire. Most of the soybean crop is turned into tofu, a heavy bean curd that keeps well, but a significant fraction of each year’s soybean crop is used to make salty, fragrant condiment called shoyu (soy sauce) and the thick paste called miso, which is used for flavoring and to make soups and sauces. Mung beans and the small, red adzuki bean are also eaten; the adzuki is the main ingredient in the sweet red bean paste used in many confections.

- Vegetables and Fruits: A number of the Empire’s important vegetables come from the sea: nori (dried seaweed) and wakame (fresh seaweed) are harvested in large quantities from coastal areas, and nori is sold all over Rokugan. The important land-grown vegetables are squash, cucumber, cabbage, kale, yam, burdock, carrot, radish, and onion. The most important fruits are the plum and the apricot, though pears, cherries and apples are also grown.

### Dining Customs By Clan

*“If it’s got four legs and isn’t a table, if it swims in the water and isn’t a boat, if it flies and it isn’t a kite—the Unicorn will eat it.”*

*— Scorpion proverb*

#### The Crab

Crab cuisine revolves around two concepts: simple and plenty. The bushi manning the Kaiu Wall want food that will fill them up and keep them going, and they want it in a hurry. Not everyone in the Crab lands serves on the Wall, but no one wants to be seen as belittling those who do, and so Wall cuisine has become the norm.

The one area where Crab cooks shine is in the preparation of fried things—the oil the foods absorb in the process adds extra calories, making it a very popular cooking method. Gourmets around the Empire agree that no one makes better age (deep fried tofu) than the cooks along the Wall. Noodle dishes are another specialty, due to the relatively low cost of wheat.

The one food advantage the Crab have over the other clans is that their southern location allows them to have fresh vegetables almost all year round: radishes and the hardier members of the cabbage family (kale, mustard, broccoli, broccoli rabe) can be grown later into the fall and started earlier in the spring than anywhere else in the Empire.

#### The Crane

The Crane eat fish and rice because they have a long coastline and abundant lands suited for rice growing. Everyone else eats fish and rice because that’s what the Crane eat, and the Crane have been setting the standards for the rest of the Empire since the reign of the First Emperor.

Ordinary Crane look for freshness and balance of flavor in their foods; the Crane elite are fanatical about it.

#### The Dragon

The samurai caste follows the standard set by the Crane, though it takes effort. The Dragon provinces are almost completely unsuitable for rice growing: they are cool, rocky, mountainous, and dry. Dragon peasants grow millet and wheat in the lowlands and barley and buckwheat in the upper reaches; the rice the samurai eat is gotten in trade. They also import a lot of dried fish, but these are used mainly for seasonings and for stocks and soups rather than as a protein source.

The main source of protein in Dragon cuisine is soybeans, especially the soybean curd known as tofu. However, some Dragon also rely on a more controversial food source: goat meat. Goats are robust creatures well-suited to the mountains, and they make use of pastures too rocky to be of any other use. Of course, eating red meat is considered scandalous in much of the Empire, so Dragon samurai tend to refer to goat as “mountain tuna.”

Due to their long winters, the cooks of the Dragon have developed many methods of pickling vegetables for later use, most of which have spread to the rest of the Empire. Pickled vegetables are popular both for meals and as snacks.

#### The Lion

The Lion deviate little from typical Rokugani dietary practice, though they eat far more poultry and tofu than they do fish. Their farmlands are extensive, though their western provinces tend to be too dry and rocky for good rice production.

#### The Mantis

The Yoritomo family of the Mantis have the distinction of being even pickier about their fish than the Crane. Indeed, they are so adamant about freshness that their chefs have devised several dishes in which the fish is set before the diner while still twitching in its death throes. Few of these dishes have become popular on the mainland, although the concept of sushi (serving raw or lightly cooked fish over vinegar-infused rice) is a favorite everywhere. The Mantis’ most famous contribution to the cuisine of the mainland is a special type of sushi known as fugu sushi, which became an immediate hit with the Crane Clan. A dish which requires the chef to have three years of intense training before preparing it, with the slightest mistake spelling certain death for the eaters, is a perfect match for the clan that considers iaijutsu an art form.

The Islands of Spice and Silk have a wet, tropical climate that allows them to grow a wide variety of fruits and vegetables, and their illicit trade with the Ivory Kingdoms has exposed them to a number of spices not normally used in Rokugan. The Tsuruchi and Moshi favor more typical mainland cuisine, though in the later twelfth century the use of Ivory Kingdom spices starts to spread through those families as well.

#### The Phoenix

The Phoenix have similar dietary patterns to the Crane, for pretty much the same reasons: abundant coastline and good farmlands, combined with a traditionalist approach. However, their large forests have given rise to a number of dishes in which the food is wrapped in the leaves of a tree (oak and large-leaved magnolia are both popular) before cooking, or roasted over a fire made from one particular kind of wood.

#### The Scorpion

For most of their history, Scorpion cuisine was similar to Lion cuisine. During the twelfth century, however, the Scorpion spent several years in exile in the Burning Sands. After their return, their diet began to show some influences from this experience. Scorpion samurai still ate plain rice, but they added dishes in which the rice was cooked with vegetables and spices to season it. They also became fond of small chunks of poultry or fish threaded on a skewer, sprinkled with cumin or cinnamon, and roasted over a fire.

#### The Unicorn

The Unicorn returned to the Empire with a cooking style developed over 800 years of wandering, a style focused on foods that could be prepared quickly with a minimum of fuel and equipment. Small bits of meat threaded on skewers, flatbreads, and vegetables roasted in ashes are all specialties of this nomadic cuisine.

The Unicorn didn’t give this cuisine up when they returned to a more settled life; they just added the elements of standard Rokugani cuisine they liked, combining the two into a unique style. Like the Dragon, they raise livestock for food, but unlike them the Unicorn aren’t afraid to call a cow a cow. The rest of the Empire regards Unicorn cooking as disgusting, but the descendants of Shinjo do not care about such sneering—they are upholding the traditions of their own ancestors, after all.

An example of Unicorn fusion cooking is gyuniku no misozuke, a dish where thin strips of beef are marinated several days in sweet white miso and then broiled. Another popular Unicorn custom is to grill meat and vegetables on a round sheet of iron set above a fire, with individual samurai scooping their food off the grill and into bowls for eating. Hot and tangy spices are common in Unicorn food, usually in fiery sauces that are drizzled over every sort of dish.

