## 54.1 Natural Creatures

Natural animals found throughout Rokugan. These creatures may be trained to serve humans or to fight for them. A character who has trained an animal (other than a horse) to fight can order the creature to attack a specific target by taking a Simple Action to roll Animal Handling / Awareness at TN 20. Animals sent into a fight will not stay once they are seriously injured.

### Dog (Inu)

Normal dogs may be found throughout Rokugan as pets, guard animals, or simple strays. Unless starving or maddened, a dog will usually try to flee once it has taken 12 or more Wounds.

- Air: 1 | Earth: 2 | Fire: 1 | Water: 1

- Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Perception 3

- Initiative: 4k3

- Attack: 3k3 bite (Complex)

- Damage: 2k1

- Armor TN: 20

- Reduction: None

- Wounds: 12; +10; 24: Dead

**Special Abilities:**

- Swift 2.

- Scent: Dogs gain a +2k1 bonus to any Perception-based rolls that involve scent.

### Dog, Unicorn War Dog

A large, powerful, intelligent, and deadly breed of dog, specially raised by the Unicorn for service in war. These dogs are loyal and ferocious, and will fight to the death alongside their human master, even staying to protect his corpse if he falls.

- Air: 2 | Earth: 3 | Fire: 2 | Water: 3

- Reflexes 4 | Agility 4

- Initiative: 5k4

- Attack: 5k4 bite (Simple)

- Damage: 3k2

- Armor TN: 25

- Reduction: 3

- Wounds: 18; +10; 36: Dead

- Skills: Hunting (Tracking) 4, Intimidation 2

**Special Abilities:**

- Swift 2.

- Scent: Dogs gain a +2k1 bonus to any Perception-based rolls that involve scent.

- Charge Attack: War dogs in the Full Attack stance may move up to (10’ x Water) as a Free Action.

### Falcon

Falcons are used as hunting and sporting birds by many samurai in Rokugan — indeed, falconry is considered one of the higher arts. A trained falcon can be used to attack enemies, although few would risk their precious birds in this way. A falcon which takes 5 or more Wounds cannot fly until it is healed.

- Air: 1 | Earth: 1 | Fire: 1 | Water: 1

- Reflexes 4 | Agility 4 | Perception 3

- Initiative: 5k5

- Attack: claw/beak 5k4 (Simple)

- Damage: 3k2

- Armor TN: 30

- Reduction: None

- Wounds: 5; +5; 10: Dead

- Skills: Hunting (Tracking) 4, Intimidation 2

**Special Abilities:**

- Swift 5 when flying.

- Eye Attack: If a falcon inflicts 10 or more Wounds in a single attack, the target is temporarily blinded (due to blood and pain) until the injury is treated with Medicine or magically healed. If the damage is 20 or more Wounds, the falcon has actually destroyed the eye (inflicting the Missing Eye disadvantage).

### Horse, Rokugani Pony

These sturdy, shaggy animals are the native steeds of Rokugan, and most samurai who ride a horse possess one of these animals. They can be trained for war, but combat is not their natural environment. A badly wounded pony (32 Wounds or more) will try to flee combat on its own Initiative unless forced to stay with a Horsemanship / Willpower roll at TN 25.

- Air: 2 | Earth: 2 | Fire: 1 | Water: 2

- Stamina 4 | Agility 2 | Strength 4

- Initiative: 3k2

- Attack: Kick 3k2 (Complex)

- Damage: 4k2

- Armor TN: 15

- Reduction: 3

- Wounds: 16; +5; 32; +10; 48: Dead

- Skills: Hunting (Tracking) 4, Intimidation 2

**Special Abilities:**

- Swift 3.

- Huge.

### Horse, Unicorn Riding Horse

The Unicorn brought these foreign horses back with them from the Burning Sands. Although not quite as tough as native Rokugani ponies, they are stronger, faster, and larger, making them a far superior animal for riding into combat. Most Unicorn riding horses have been trained for war, and in a skirmish the rider need only make a single roll of Horsemanship / Awareness at TN 10 at the start of a skirmish (as a Free Action) to convince the horse to attack on its own Turn each round.

- Air: 2 | Earth: 3 | Fire: 1 | Water: 2

- Stamina 4 | Agility 3 | Strength 5

- Initiative: 4k2

- Attack: Kick 4k3 (Complex)

- Damage: 5k2

- Armor TN: 15

- Reduction: 3

- Wounds: 12; +5; 24; +10; 36; +15; 48: Dead

**Special Abilities:**

- Swift 3.

- Huge.

### Horse, Utaku Battle Steed

The famous and specially bred horses of the Utaku Shiotome (Battle Maidens) are the most formidable steeds in Rokugan, powerful and intelligent beasts who bond closely with their riders and fight ferociously in wartime. By long-standing tradition within the Unicorn Clan, these animals can only be ridden by Battle Maidens. Utaku steeds will fight willingly and intelligently along with their riders, without any need for a skill roll. They will remain at their rider’s side even if she is dead.

- Air: 2 | Earth: 4 | Fire: 2 | Water: 3

- Reflexes 3 | Stamina 4 | Agility 3 | Strength 6

- Initiative: 4k3

- Attack: Kick 4k3 (Simple) or Trample 6k4 (Complex)

- Damage: Kick 6k2, Trample 6k4

- Armor TN: 20

- Reduction: 5

- Wounds: 16; +5; 32; +10; 48; +15; 64: Dead

**Special Abilities:**

- Swift 3.

- Fear 2 (when charging).

- Huge.

### Lion

Wild lions are dangerous predators who operate in small groups called prides, typically consisting of a single mature male and 2–8 females. They are numerous in Rokugan, due to the settled and civilized nature of most of the Empire. Most of them who do exist can be found on the country’s central plains — mostly the lands of the Lion Clan, unsurprisingly. Akodo’s clan is known to have tamed a small number of these beasts and trained them to fight alongside specially-talented human warriors, the so-called Beastmasters.

- Air: 2 | Earth: 4 | Fire: 1 | Water: 2

- Reflexes 3 | Stamina 4 | Agility 3 | Strength 6

- Initiative: 4k3

- Attack: Claws 5k3 (Simple) or bite 6k3 (Complex)

- Damage: 4k3 (claws) or 4k4 (bite)

- Armor TN: 20

- Reduction: 3

- Wounds: 12; +5; 24; +10; 36; +15; 48: Dead

**Special Abilities:**

- Fear 1.

### Ox

Since horses, even ponies, are largely restricted to the samurai caste and the very wealthiest of commoners, common folk in Rokugan rely on oxen to pull carts, drag plows, and perform other laborious tasks. Most Rokugani villages have an ox-pen holding two or three of these strong but stubborn and dull-witted animals.

- Air: 2 | Earth: 2 | Fire: 1 | Water: 2

- Reflexes 3 | Stamina 6 | Agility 2 | Strength 6

- Initiative: 2k2

- Attack: Gore 3k2 (Complex) or Trample 4k3 (Complex)

- Damage: 6k3 (Gore) or 6k4 (Trample)

- Armor TN: 10

- Reduction: 4

- Wounds: 20; +5; 40; +10; 60: Dead

**Special Abilities:**

- Furious Charge: If an Ox is injured, it will initially react with fury, charging whatever it perceives as the source of the pain. On its first Turn after it is wounded (assuming it was not killed outright), it does not suffer any Wound penalties, and may add +10 to its attack roll. Once this first surge of anger passes, it suffers the normal effects of Wound penalties.

- Huge.

### Wolf (Ookami)

Wolves are found in the mountains and forests of Rokugan, especially in remote areas, and usually operate in packs of 1–10 adults (plus cubs). They prefer to feed on deer, hare, and other natural prey. Wolves are clever animals and can learn from experience, and thus tend to be wary of humans and easily driven away by fire. However, if they are starving or desperate they will sometimes attack lone humans.

- Air: 1 | Earth: 3 | Fire: 2 | Water: 3

- Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Perception 4

- Initiative: 4k3

- Attack: Bite 4k3 (Complex)

- Damage: 5k2

- Armor TN: 20

- Reduction: 3

- Wounds: 18; +10; 36: Dead

- Skills: Stealth 2

**Special Abilities:**

- Swift 2.

- Scent: Wolves gain a +2k1 bonus to any Perception-based rolls that involve scent.

### Ape (Ozaru)

Apes are large manlike animals, covered in fur, with high intelligence; some breeds are known to be able to utilize crude stone or wood tools. They are common in the jungles of the Isles of Silk and Spice, and sometimes appear on the mainland as well, albeit much more rarely. Apes are not overtly aggressive, but they will defend any intrusion into their territory, and a perceived threat to their dominance will be met with brutal retaliation. Any warrior would consider it foolish to face an enraged ape without weapons. The stats below represent a typical medium-sized ape. GMs may depict larger specimens by increasing the Earth Ring, Strength Trait, and Wounds.

Air 1 | Earth 2 | Fire 2 | Water 1 | Reflexes 3 | Stamina 4 | Agility 4 | Strength 5

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Smash 5k4 (Simple) or Bite 4k4 (Complex) | Damage: 5k2 (smash) or 3k3 (bite) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 4 | Wounds: 10; +5; 20; +10; 30; +15; 40: Dead

Skills: Athletics (Climbing) 3

Special Abilities: Fear 1.

### Badger (Anaguma)

Badgers are small predators with nasty dispositions. While they are not physically imposing, badgers are known for their sharp claws and vicious bites. They do not go out of their way to attack humans, but a cornered or trapped badger will fight with a ferocity matching that of a samurai. Badgers are found in all areas of the Rokugani mainland.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 2 | Stamina 2 | Agility 3 | Strength 2

Initiative: 2k2 | Attack: Claws 3k2 (Simple) or Bite 2k2 (Complex) | Damage: 1k1 (claws) or 2k2 (bite) | Armor TN: 10 | Wounds: 12; +10; 20: Dead

### Bat (Koumori)

Bats are usually seen as a good omen in Rokugan, since they eat insects such as mosquitoes which are often believed to be a form of Gaki. Bats are nocturnal, and are able to make their way in the dark by use of echolocation, “seeing” with their ears. It is rare for a bat to attempt to feed off of a human, but the occasional rabid or confused bat may try to do so.

Air 2 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Perception 3

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Bite 3k3 (Complex) | Damage: 1k1 | Armor TN: 20 | Wounds: 5; +10; 10: Dead

Skills: Hunting 3

Special Abilities: Echolocation --- Bats may operate in total darkness without penalty. Swift 3 (when flying). Disease Carrier --- Any time a character is bitten by a bat, there is a 1 in 10 chance that the character catches a sickness from the bite. Unless treated with magic or the Medicine skill (TN 30), the character will suffer from chronic fevers, chills, and muscle aches, reducing all physical Traits by 1. If left untreated over the long term, the illness may eventually result in permanent physical damage or death, at the GM’s discretion.

### Bear (Kuma)

Bears are large omnivorous mammals found throughout mainland Rokugan. The most common varieties are the black bear and the brown bear. Black bears are found more often in the lands of the Crane than elsewhere, while brown bears are most plentiful in Phoenix lands. Black bears are noted for being smaller than brown bears and far less aggressive; however, all mother bears are fiercely protective of their young and will tear any threatening creature to pieces. Hungry bears are dogged hunters, pursuing their victims relentlessly, although they cannot run downhill. Black bears will climb trees to get their prey, while brown bears prefer to knock trees over. Aggressive bears can be terrifying, for they are notoriously difficult to kill. An angry bear can threaten even a group of armed samurai.

Air 1 | Earth 6 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 4 | Strength 7

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Claws 6k4 (Simple) or Bite 5k4 (Complex) | Damage: 7k3 (claws) or 4k3 (bite) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 9 | Wounds: 30; +5; 60; +10; 90: Dead

Special Abilities: Fear 2. Swift 3 (except when going downhill). Huge.

### Boar (Inoshishi)

Boars are medium-sized mammals related to pigs, differing from their smaller cousins by their thick hides, bristly fur, and the two large tusks located at the ends of their jaws. Although herbivorous, they are dangerous and aggressive animals, notoriously difficult to kill, and the only thing easier than underestimating a boar is being disemboweled by one. Boars may travel alone or in herds, and viciously assault all predators. Samurai consider hunting boar to be great sport, doing so with bows and spears.

Air 1 | Earth 5 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Strength 4

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Tusks 5k3 (Complex) | Damage: 5k2 | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 12 | Wounds: 30; +5; 75: Dead

Skills: Jiujutsu 3

Special Abilities: Disembowel --- A boar may initiate Grapple attempts with its tusks. While it controls the Grapple the boar delivers 4k4 damage to its opponent every round. Goring Charge --- When a boar is in the Full Attack Stance, it can attack as a Simple Action instead of a Complex Action, and adds +1k1 to its attack and damage rolls. Huge.

### Cat (Neko)

Cats in Rokugan are the subject of considerable superstition, and some peasants believe them to be shape-changers or friendly spirits. They are sometimes kept as pets, and many monasteries and villages also encourage their presence because they reduce the number of rats and other vermin. Due to their hunting of vermin, cats sometimes become carriers of diseases. Cats do not like fighting and will try to flee if they take 5 or more Wounds.

Air 2 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 3 | Perception 4

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Bite 4k3 (Complex) or Claw 3k3 (Complex) | Damage: 1k1 (bite), 1k1 (claws) | Armor TN: 25 | Wounds: 5; +5; 10; +5; 15: Dead

Skills: Athletics 4, Hunting 3

Special Abilities: Cat Scratch Fever --- Whenever a character is scratched by a cat, there is a 1 in 10 chance of sickness: fever and inflammation for 1 to 3 weeks, inflicting a -1k0 penalty to all actions until cured (spells or Medicine TN 30) or the disease runs its course. Low-light Vision --- Cats operate normally in dim light such as starlight, though still blinded by complete darkness.

### Crane (Tsuru)

Wild crane in flight are the subject of numerous Rokugani poems and paintings. Cranes are no threat to humans, and samurai will not harm them, but the occasional ronin will hunt them. Samurai of the Crane Clan in particular see killing one of their namesake birds as an act of needless destruction of innocent beauty, and no one ever shoots at a crane in their presence.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 3 | Perception 2

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Beak 3k3 (Complex) | Damage: 2k1 | Armor TN: 25 | Wounds: 6; +5; 12: Dead

Special Abilities: Swift 4 (when flying).

### Crocodile (Wani)

Crocodiles are large four-legged amphibious reptiles known for preying on humans. The largest crocodile may be twenty feet long and weigh nearly 3,000 pounds. While not common in Rokugan, they can be found in several rivers and many coastal swamps, as well as on the Isles of Silk and Spice. Crocodiles hunt by lying still, either appearing to be logs or disappearing below the surface of the water, then lunging at convenient prey. They like to seize prey in their jaws and then spin and thrash in the water to further damage and potentially drown their victim. Hieroglyphics found in the ruins of the long-lost troll civilization suggest that the trolls once kept crocodiles as pets and perhaps as war beasts, although any such connection between the races has long since vanished.

Air 1 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Stamina 4 | Agility 4 | Strength 4

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Bite 5k4 (Complex) | Damage: 4k4 | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 24; +5; 36; +10; 64: Dead

Skills: Stealth 2

Special Abilities: Aquatic --- Crocodiles swim in water as easily as they move on land. They do not need to make a Skill roll to swim. Fear 2. Fleet 2 (while swimming). Tenacious Jaws --- Crocodiles who bite someone may hold onto them with a Contested Strength roll, inflicting an additional 2k2 damage each Turn. If this happens in water, the victim will begin drowning on subsequent rounds.

### Eagle (Washi)

The largest raptor in Rokugan is the golden eagle. While falcons are far more swift than eagles, eagles are known for their surprising strength and have even been known to make prey of goats. It is possible to train an eagle as a hunting companion in the same manner as a falcon, but this is far less common, as eagles have a more aggressive and less predictable nature than falcons and even trained eagles may attack humans. An eagle which takes 7 or more Wounds cannot fly until it heals.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 5 | Agility 4 | Perception 4

Initiative: 5k5 | Attack: Beak/Talons 5k4 (Complex) | Damage: 2k2 | Armor TN: 30 | Wounds: 7; +5; 15: Dead

Special Abilities: Swift 3 (when flying).

### Elephant (Zo)

Elephants are native to the distant realm known as the Ivory Kingdoms and are all but unheard-of within Rokugan. Some samurai have imported elephants as curiosities, but there have never been more than four in the Empire at any one time. Elephants are striking creatures, very large and surprisingly intelligent. While they appear fearsome, elephants are herbivores and are usually mild in nature, becoming violent only when they or their young are threatened. An enraged elephant is very much a creature to be avoided.

Air 1 | Earth 4 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Stamina 6 | Agility 3 | Strength 7

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Tusks 4k3 (Complex), Stamp 5k4 (Complex) | Damage: 7k2 (tusks), 4k4 (stamp) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 7 | Wounds: 20; +5; 40; +10; 60; +15; 80; +20; 100: Dead

Special Abilities: Charge --- If an elephant is in the Full Attack Stance and moves at least ten feet, it can attack with its tusks as a Simple Action instead of a Complex Action. Fear 2. Huge.

### Flying Squirrel (Musasabi)

The flying squirrel is the largest Rokugani squirrel. It can leap and glide great distances, using a web of skin that connects its front and rear paws on each side. Flying squirrels are not particularly bright or threatening, and are often hunted by samurai archers for target practice, or by poor peasants willing to set aside their distaste for meat in order to stay fed.

Air 2 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 2 | Perception 2

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Teeth 3k2 (Complex) | Damage: 1k1 (cannot explode) | Armor TN: 25 | Wounds: 6; +5; 12: Dead

Skills: Athletics 5

Special Abilities: Glider --- The squirrel can glide from higher locations to lower ones as a Complex Action. It is considered to be Swift 4 (instead of Swift 2) when gliding.

### Fox (Kitsune)

Foxes are small vulpine creatures, distantly related to dogs. They are common throughout the forests of Rokugan, especially in the Kitsune Mori and Isawa Mori. Foxes are known for their cunning and swiftness as well as their ability to stalk undetected. They pose no threat to humans, but often prey on chickens and other farm animals, and as a result many Rokugani hunt them. In regions where contact with animal spirits is widespread, such as the Kitsune Mori, killing a fox is considered dangerous and potentially deeply unlucky. Supposedly, fox spirits have green eyes, and many superstitious hunters will try to see the eyes of a fox before they will shoot at it.

Air 2 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 4 | Stamina 2 | Agility 3 | Perception 3

Initiative: 5k4 | Attack: Bite 4k3 (Complex) | Damage: 2k2 | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 12; +10; 24: Dead

Skills: Athletics 2, Stealth 3

Special Abilities: Swift 2.

### Goat (Kamoshika)

Rokugani goats are among the largest species of goat in the world, standing up to three feet tall and weighing up to 290 pounds. They are notable for their shaggy dark fur and white faces. Both males and females have short horns. The hardy goat is found in all Rokugani forests and is notable for its tenacity as well as its surprising dexterity. The animal is a herbivore and normally docile, but will not hesitate to drive off threatening intruders.

Air 1 | Earth 2 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 2 | Agility 3 | Strength 2

Initiative: 2k2 | Attack: Horns 4k3 (Complex) | Damage: 3k2 | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 4 | Wounds: 16; +10; 32: Dead

Skills: Athletics 2

Special Abilities: Swift 2. Headbutt --- Goats gain a Free Raise for Knockdown attempts.

### Hare (Usagi)

Small, fast, and wary, hares can be found nearly anywhere on the Rokugani mainland. They are common game for falconers, though of course proper samurai will not actually eat such red meat. A fleeing hare will tend to run in a large circle, eventually ending up in its starting place, a habit exploited by experienced hunters.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 4 | Perception 3

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: None | Damage: None | Armor TN: 20 | Wounds: 5; +10; 10: Dead

Skills: Athletics 5

Special Abilities: Swift 3.

### Monkey (Saru)

Far more numerous than their larger ape cousins, monkeys are found in many parts of the Rokugani mainland as well as on the Mantis Isles. Some of them even dwell in the cold mountains of the north, warming themselves in natural hot springs. Monkeys are intelligent and playful, very curious about humans, and will often root through a human’s possessions or explore their residence. Monkeys are not a physical danger to samurai, or even to most peasants, but their thieving and destructive nature can make them a considerable nuisance. Smaller breeds kept as pets by nobles will have Strength and Agility of 2.

Air 2 | Earth 1 | Fire 2 | Water 1 | Reflexes 4 | Stamina 2 | Agility 3 | Strength 3

Initiative: 5k4 | Attack: Bite 3k3 (Complex) | Damage: 3k1 | Armor TN: 25 | Wounds: 8; +5; 16; +10; 24: Dead

Skills: Athletics (Leaping) 5

Special Abilities: Swift 2.

### Octopus and Squid (Tako)

Octopi are aquatic eight-tentacled creatures with soft and swollen bodies, inhabiting the waters off Rokugan’s coasts. Squid are similar to octopi but have a tougher body, longer and more dangerous tentacles, and a larger beak-like mouth. There are dozens of species local to Rokugan, and many are very small and harmless. Giant specimens can reach fourteen to twenty feet or more. Octopi are usually not aggressive and will attempt to flee combat in which they take at least 20 Wounds. Squid are more aggressive predators and larger squid may attack almost any creature they encounter. The stats listed here are for a larger specimen of either species, since those are the only types likely to threaten samurai.

Air 2 | Earth 2 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Stamina 4 | Agility 3 | Strength 4

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Tentacles 5k4 (Simple), Beak 4k4 (Complex) | Damage: 4k4 (arms), 2k2 (beak) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 5 (squid only) | Wounds: 16; +6; 32; +12; 48: Dead

Skills: Jiujutsu 5, Stealth (Hiding, Ambush) 5

Special Abilities: Color Change (Octopus only) --- The octopus’s natural ability to change its color allows it to blend into the sea bottom. If it spends a Simple Action to conceal itself, it gains +1k1 on its Stealth Skill Roll to hide. Jet Propulsion --- The creature takes a Complex Action to move up to its Water x30. Poison Bite --- On a successful beak attack, the target is Dazed for four Rounds (Reactions Stage of the fourth round). A Stamina Roll at TN 20 reduces this to two rounds.

### Shark, Aoizame

There are several varieties of shark native to Rokugan’s waters. The most common dangerous variety, the aoizame (also sometimes called the mako), is a fleet, aggressive animal about four feet long. These sharks rarely attack humans unprovoked, but when they do they act swiftly and mercilessly. Sharks attack in a berserker-like fury when they smell blood in the water, capable of detecting it from great distances. For this reason sharks are held in reverence by both the Hiruma family and, ironically, some of the smaller Bloodspeaker Cult sects.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 4 | Stamina 2 | Agility 3

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Bite 4k3 (Complex) | Damage: 4k2 | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 12; +10; 24: Dead

Skills: Hunting 3

Special Abilities: Blood Frenzy --- Sharks become enraged by the presence of blood in the water, which they can smell up to a half mile away. A shark in blood frenzy will attack the nearest prey even if not hungry, rolling +1k1 for all Initiative, Attack and Damage Rolls. Swift 4. Vulnerability --- A successful Called Shot to the shark’s nose (2 Raises) will inflict a Fear 3 effect on it.

### Shark, Hohojirozame

The largest breed of shark found in Rokugan’s water, the hohojirozame or “white-cheeked shark” can grow up to ten feet long, and has jaws powerful enough to bite a grown man in half. It does not like to eat humans but it is an aggressive animal and much more likely to attack than the smaller aoizame shark.

Air 1 | Earth 2 | Fire 1 | Water 3 | Reflexes 4 | Stamina 3 | Agility 4 | Strength 4

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Bite 5k4 (Complex) | Damage: 7k3 | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 18; +10; 36: Dead

Skills: Hunting 4

Special Abilities: Blood Frenzy --- as aoizame above. Fear 2. Huge. Swift 4. Vulnerability --- A successful Called Shot to the shark’s nose (2 Raises) will inflict a Fear 3 effect on it.

### Snake (Hebi), Constrictor

Over three dozen varieties of snake make their home in Rokugan. No definite link is known between mundane snakes and the serpentine race of the Naga, although samurai often assume the two are connected and those who respect the Naga will try to avoid killing snakes unless necessary. Constrictor snakes are large beasts, anywhere from eight to fifteen feet long. They are generally found only in the Mantis Isles, although they occasionally appear in the southern coastal swamps of Rokugan as well. They are stealthy predators, lurking in trees, streams, or marshes until their prey comes close enough to seize and constrict.

Air 1 | Earth 3 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Stamina 4 | Agility 3 | Strength 4

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Bite 3k3 (Complex) or Grapple 7k3 (Complex) | Damage: Bite 1k1, Grapple 4k1 | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 16; +5; 32; +10; 48: Dead

Skills: Jiujutsu 4, Stealth 4

Special Abilities: Squeeze --- When using its Grappling attack, the constrictor snake will always choose to inflict damage while it controls the Grapple (it rolls 8k4 to maintain control). After a victim has taken Grappling damage for a number of consecutive Rounds equal to its Stamina, it will begin to suffocate, taking another 2k2 Wounds per Round.

### Snake (Hebi), Poisonous Asp

Poisonous snakes are found throughout Rokugan but are most common in the central and southern parts of the Empire. The Scorpion Clan uses their venom for its own sinister purposes, and other, more secretive organizations also harvest snake venom. Asps are generally small, two or at the most three feet long, and are usually not aggressive, though they will not hesitate to bite if frightened or angered.

Air 1 | Earth 2 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Perception 2

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Bite 3k3 (Complex) | Damage: 1k1 (plus venom) | Armor TN: 20 | Wounds: 6; +10; 12: Dead

Skills: Stealth 5

Special Abilities: Venom --- Asp venom is only dangerous if introduced into the bloodstream via a bite. It reduces the target’s Agility, Reflexes, Stamina, and Strength by 1 each hour. At the beginning of the second and each subsequent hour, the target may make a Stamina Roll (TN 25) to prevent suffering additional penalties for that hour. These penalties continue to accrue until the target succeeds on three consecutive rolls, the poison is treated, 24 hours pass, or the target has an uninterrupted eight-hour period to rest. If Stamina is reduced to 0 by the poison, Earth and Wounds become 0 as well, and the victim dies. Reduced Traits return at the end of 24 hours if the victim survives.

### Stag (Shika)

The stag is the most widespread game animal in Rokugan. They are prized for their swiftness and the challenge they present to hunters. It is not uncommon for proud hunters to decorate their kabuto with the horns of their kills, and ronin use this to advertise their hunting prowess to potential employers. Due to Rokugani dietary beliefs, stag meat (venison) is normally only eaten by eta, although peasants and even samurai have sometimes eaten it when they had no other choice. Stags stand around four feet tall and can have very large horns.

Air 2 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 5 | Stamina 3 | Agility 3 | Strength 4

Initiative: 5k5 | Attack: Gore 3k3 (Complex) | Damage: 4k2 | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 12; +10; 24; +20; 36: Dead

Skills: Stealth 2

Special Abilities: Rut --- During their mating season, male stags become much more aggressive and careless. They roll +1k1 on Attack rolls but lose all Ranks in the Stealth Skill. Swift 3.

### Tiger (Tora)

Tigers are massive predatory felines, even larger than lions. Their fur is usually a pattern of white, orange, and black stripes, but some breeds lack the orange coloration and all-white tigers have occasionally been reported. Tigers are not pack animals, preferring solitude and viciously defending their territory against all intruders. While their solitary behavior may make them seem less dangerous than lions, tigers are intelligent and aggressive hunters, strong swimmers, and seem to have a taste for human flesh. They are extremely difficult to domesticate, although wealthy noblemen will sometimes keep them as well-guarded pets. Tigers in Rokugan are found primarily in the northern regions of the Empire, crossing the Great Wall of the North Mountains from the steppes. A more tropical variety of tiger is found in the Ivory Kingdoms and these beasts have sometimes been imported to the Mantis Isles as curiosities. Regardless, all forms of tiger are dangerous and they have little fear of men.

Air 2 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Reflexes 4 | Stamina 4 | Agility 4 | Strength 4

Initiative: 5k4 | Attack: Claws 6k4 (Complex) or Bite 4k4 (Complex) | Damage: 5k2 (claws) or 3k3 (bite) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 4 | Wounds: 24; +10; 48: Dead

Skills: Hunting 4, Stealth 4

Special Abilities: Fear 2. Swift 1.

