## 54.12 Additional Creatures

The following creatures supplement the earlier sections of the bestiary with additional nonhuman entities and Elemental Terrors.

### Elemental Terrors

GREATER ELEMENTAL TERROR OF AIR: KAZE NO ONI. Kaze no Oni are created by the Dark Oracles at the start of the twelfth century – there are no records of their appearance prior to that time, although GMs may choose to rule that the Oracles took action earlier in the Empire’s history. They resemble the giant swollen corpses of infant birds, standing high atop long legs that trail away into insubstantiality. Their affinity to the Air kansen gives them an unnatural ability to absorb spells and hurl them back at their enemies, making them a particular threat to shugenja.

Air 6 | Earth 3 | Fire 3 | Water 2 | Agility 4

Initiative: 8k6 | Attack: Bite 6k4 (Simple) | Damage: 4k2 | Armor TN: 35 | Reduction: 5 (bypassed by jade, crystal, or obsidian) | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Spellcraft 5. Special Abilities: Fear. Huge. Invulnerable. Magic Resistance: Spell-Filching – the Kaze no Oni can absorb spells cast against it and redirect them at its enemies.

LESSER ELEMENTAL TERROR OF AIR: YOSUCHI NO ONI. The Yosuchi no Oni are shadowy, insubstantial demons who float through the air, resembling nothing so much as a tangle of tattered semi-incorporeal silk with a vaguely defined head. Like their larger cousins, the Kaze no Oni, they are creations of the Dark Oracle of Air and are first seen around the start of the twelfth century. The Yosuchi no Oni is almost as insubstantial as the Element from which it was created, and is thus both difficult to fight and dangerous to those it attacks. It drains the life-essence of its prey directly, drawing it out through its vaporous appendages. Only magic and weapons of sacred substances like jade can affect it. Fortunately, it is quite vulnerable to attacks from those sources.

Air 4 | Earth 1 | Fire 3 | Water 1 | Reflexes 6 | Willpower 3 | Perception 3

Initiative: 7k6 | Attack: Appendage 7k3 (Complex) | Damage: 1k1 plus Life Drain (see Special Abilities) | Armor TN: 35 | Reduction: None | Wounds: 25: +5; 50: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Stealth 5. Special Abilities: Fear. Insubstantial. Life Drain. Magic Resistance. Superior Invulnerability. Swift.

### Additional Spirits and Natural Creatures

NUE. Nue are large bird-spirits from Chikushudo. They resemble a predatory bird roughly the size of a dog, but with an oddly human head and face. They possess a human-like cunning but the mentality of aggressive animals, and will attack any prey they think they can kill. They are known for carrying out flying ambushes, such as by flying between their prey and the sun, or flying behind clouds.

Air 2 | Earth 2 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 5 | Agility 4 | Perception 3

Initiative: 6k5 | Attack: Claw/Beak 6k4 (Simple) | Damage: 4k2 | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 15: +5; 30: Dead

Skills: Hunting 3, Investigation 3, Stealth 3. Special Abilities: Diving Attack. Spirit. Swift.

TSURU, SPIRIT OF CHIKUSHUDO. Tsuru are shapeshifting spirits similar to kitsune, koumori, and tanuki. In their natural form they appear to be very large and elegant cranes, but they can shapeshift into a beautiful human body with somewhat elongated facial features, or into a human-crane hybrid that somewhat resembles a kenku. On some occasions they have been mistaken for kenku, especially since in their bipedal forms they are fond of carrying swords and engaging in duels. They are proud creatures and easily insulted – insults which they prefer to answer with duels.

Air 4 | Earth 2 | Fire 2 | Water 1 | Agility 3 | Perception 4

Initiative: 5k4 | Attack: Sword 7k3 (Complex) or Beak 3k3 (Complex) | Damage: 4k2 (sword) or 1k1 (beak) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 15: +5; 30: +10; 45: +15; 60: Dead

Skills: Defense 3, Etiquette 3, Iaijutsu 5, Kenjutsu 4. Special Abilities: Shapeshifting. Spirit. Swift.

WYRMS. Wyrms are huge warm-blooded reptilian serpents, often as much as thirty or forty feet in length, who dwell in the steppes beyond the Great Wall of the North mountains. Some of them have wings and are able to fly, but even the land-bound versions move extremely quickly and can often create the illusion of flight as they race across the ground. They are aggressive and dangerous predators on their own, but the Yobanjin barbarians of the north have been known to partially tame the creatures and ride them into battle, greatly increasing the strength of their warbands. Many Rokugani believe the Wyrms to be supernatural or perhaps even demonic, but the few scholars who have studied them closely are convinced they are merely unusual natural creatures.

Air 3 | Earth 4 | Fire 1 | Water 3 | Reflexes 5 | Agility 4 | Strength 5

Initiative: 5k5 | Attack: Bite 6k4 (Simple) or Constrict 6k4 (Complex) | Damage: 7k2 (bite) or 5k5 (constrict) | Armor TN: 35 | Reduction: 6 | Wounds: 32: +5; 64: +10; 96: Dead

Skills: Jiujutsu 2. Special Abilities: Constriction Attack. Fear. Huge. Swift.

### New Supernatural Creatures

KODAMA. Kodama are spirits who inhabit the oldest trees in Rokugan, especially oak or ash trees. Once bound to a tree, their life is tied to it and they will die if the tree perishes. Kodama strengthen their chosen trees, protecting them from pestilence and insects. They pay little attention to human affairs and usually only interact with humans who have an unusually strong connection to Earth. Legend claims that cutting down a kodama’s tree will evoke a powerful curse from the dying spirit, unless a seed from the tree is taken and planted elsewhere – in which case the kodama will transfer itself to the new tree.

Air 2 | Earth 3 | Fire 1 | Water 3 | Agility 2

Initiative: 2k2 | Attack: Fist 3k2 (Complex) | Damage: 3k2 | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 15: +10; 30: Dead

Special Abilities: Kodama’s Curse – A kodama whose tree is destroyed can issue a dying curse against the person responsible. The accursed person receives three Ranks in the Unlucky Disadvantage, lasting a number of months equal to the age (in years) of the tree. The curse can theoretically be lifted by other kodama if the victim finds a way of appeasing them, although there are no known instances of this. Magic Resistance (two Ranks). Taking Cover – A kodama can physically hide within its tree as a Simple Action. Once hidden, it cannot be detected or harmed, although killing the tree will of course destroy it. It can emerge from the tree as a Free Action. Spirit.

MYOBU. Myobu are an unusual form of kitsune spirit who directly serve Inari, the Fortune of Rice. They frequently take human form, appearing as either a beautiful woman or an elderly peasant, while their fox form is uniformly that of a silver fox with up to eight tails – the number of tails depending on the myobu’s age and its standing with Inari. Myobu are normally benign spirits, appearing to peasants and samurai alike and offering omens and instructions on how to maximize the harvest and avoid famine. If a particular person has displeased the Fortune, however, the myobu may appear in a wrathful form, offering dire warnings or bestowing curses.

Air 2 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 1 | Awareness 5 | Perception 4

Initiative: 5k3 | Attack: Bite 4k2 (Complex) | Damage: 2k1 | Armor TN: 20 | Wounds: 15: +5; 30: +10; 45: Dead

Special Abilities: Curse – A myobu can bestow curses on those who have angered Inari. The exact nature of the curse is chosen by the GM, but will typically be connected to the rice crop in some way. Shapeshifting – A Myobu may take human form as a Simple Action, and return to its true fox form as a Free Action. Spirit. Swift 3.

YOBUKO. Yobuko are spirits who inhabit mountains and mountain passes, typically taking the form of a small boy with a wide face, wearing peasant clothing and a broad-brimmed straw hat. A yobuko has one leg and hops from place to place, the sound of its movement resembling pebbles tumbling down a hill. Yobuko do not know the Rokugani language, but will repeat the words they hear. They view humans in their territory as guests, but become irritated if the mortals overstay their welcome.

Air 1 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 2 | Stamina 4 | Strength 4

Initiative: 3k2 | Attack: Fist 4k2 (Complex) | Damage: 4k1 | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 3 (bypassed by crystal) | Wounds: 15: +10; 30: Dead

Skills: Acting (Mimicry) 3, Athletics (Climbing) 2, Stealth 2. Special Abilities: Earthquake – A wrathful yobuko may trigger landslides, avalanches, and earthquakes to drive intrusive mortals out of its territory. This requires a Complex Action and produces a mechanical effect identical to the spell Earthquake. Spirit.

### New Shadowlands Creatures

JINMENJU. The entity known as the jinmenju appears to be a tree, superficially similar to a peach tree, which blooms blood-red flowers in the spring, followed by fruit in the summer. However, the fruit takes the shape of human faces, complete with functioning eyes, nose, and mouth. The eyes are red in color, the mouths are filled with razor-sharp teeth, and the faces utter bone-chilling laughter or hideous screams whenever someone approaches. They seem to retain their life even when separated from the tree, falling silent only after the tree itself is dead. Groves of these sinister trees can be found in the Shadowlands, and there are also a few in the darker parts of the Shinomen Forest and the Mori Kuroi, as well as other locations marked by supernatural rumor or Tainted activity such as the Forest of Dreamers.

Air 0 | Earth 5 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Awareness 4 | Agility 2 | Strength 4

Initiative: 1k1 | Attack: Bite 4k2 (Simple) | Damage: 4k2 plus poison | Armor TN: 5 | Reduction: 15 (10 to jade, 5 to crystal or obsidian) | Wounds: 40: +5; 80: +10; 120: Dead | Taint Rank: 3

Special Abilities: Poison – Those bitten by the jinmenju’s sinister fruit-faces suffer the immediate loss of 1 Rank of Stamina. Multiple bites can quickly become lethal. The lost Stamina returns at the rate of 1 Rank every 24 hours, unless healed earlier with magic. Screaming Fruit – The horrible shrieks of the jinmenju’s fruit-heads inflict a Fear 2 effect on all who hear them. They may also attract other dangerous creatures within hearing, at the GM’s discretion.

### Elemental Terrors of Earth

The Greater and Lesser Terrors of Earth can be found anywhere in Rokugan or the Shadowlands. They typically travel in pairs, with the Lesser Terror scouting ahead while the Greater Terror remains hidden. They can be summoned by maho-tsukai, but because the Terrors of Earth obey only the Dark Oracle of Earth, anyone who summons them cannot actually control them.

GREATER ELEMENTAL TERROR OF EARTH: JIMEN NO ONI. The more powerful of the two Earth Elemental Terrors appears as a giant humanoid made of blood-clotted dirt and rock; in place of eyes it typically has rubies that shine with unholy fire, and its cry sounds like the rumble of a great boulder crashing down a hill. The Jimen no Oni is the least cunning of the Elemental Terrors, but what it lacks in intelligence it makes up for in brute force, crushing its foes one by one.

Air 2 | Earth 8 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 4 | Strength 6

Initiative: 6k4 | Attack: Smashing Fist 8k4 (Simple) | Damage: 7k3 | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 8 (halved against crystal or obsidian) | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: +15; 120: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Defense 4, Hunting 4, Intimidation 4. Special Abilities: Earth Movement – A Jimen no Oni can move through solid earth and stone at its normal movement speed. Fear 4. Huge. Invulnerability. Magic Resistance – A Jimen no Oni has three Ranks of Magic Resistance against Earth spells only. Trembling Earth – Jimen no Oni’s footsteps cause the earth to shake. Anyone within 50’ of a Jimen no Oni suffers a penalty of –1k0 to all Skill Rolls and Spell Casting Rolls due to the distraction caused by the shaking ground.

LESSER TERROR OF EARTH: TOICHI NO KANSEN. The Toichi no Kansen is the largest of the Lesser Elemental Terrors. It takes the form of a large pile of dirt and stone with stony appendages. Like its greater cousin, the Toichi no Kansen is not known for its intelligence, but possesses great patience and relentless determination when hunting down its foes. It also has a nasty tendency to bury its victims beneath the ground, dooming them to suffocation.

Air 1 | Earth 5 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Strength 4

Initiative: 5k2 | Attack: Fist 6k3 (Simple) | Damage: 4k2 | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 4 (none against crystal or obsidian) | Wounds: 20: +5; 40: +10; 60: +15; 80: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Skills: Defense 2, Hunting 2, Intimidation 2. Special Abilities: Bury – After successfully initiating a grapple, a Toichi no Kansen may drag its victim underground, moving at half its movement speed. If the victim is dragged underground, they must dig themselves out or face suffocation. Fear 3. Earth Movement – A Toichi no Kansen can move through solid earth and stone at its normal movement speed. Huge. Magic Resistance – A Toichi no Kansen has one Rank of Magic Resistance against Earth magic.

### Legendary Creatures of Earth

DAIDARABOCHI. Legends among the peasants of the Dragon lands claim the mountains of the north are home to the daidarabochi, a race of angry giants. They are so large their very footsteps can create holes large enough for a spring, and when they become angry, the rocks they throw create holes large enough for lakes. The daidarabochi have a particularly thick skin that renders them resistant to the cold of higher elevations, and they subsist primarily on mountain animals that stray into their territory. They fight using whatever implements are nearby, typically their fists or boulders, or uprooted trees on those rare occasions when they venture into lower elevations.

Air 2 | Earth 4 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Stamina 7 | Agility 3 | Strength 6

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Club 8k3 (Simple) | Damage: 8k2 | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 10 | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: Dead

Special Abilities: Fear 2. Huge.

HIBAGON. Rokugani who live near deep forests tell tales of encountering a strange fur-covered creature which stands on its hind legs like a man, but has a snubbed face and wide-set eyes similar to a monkey. Its entire body is covered with brown or black hair except for its hands and feet. These are the hibagon, a race of secretive ape-men. They live among the branches of the trees, constructing crude woven shelters from sticks and leaves. They have a mastery of simple wooden tools and a basic spoken language, but lack any skills for working stone or metal. Though they are fierce in appearance, the hibagon avoid eating meat, surviving on a diet of fruit, nuts, leaves, and bark. They have a natural hatred of Tainted creatures, and will react fiercely to anything that is clearly Tainted, trying to drive it away with barrages of rocks and sticks.

Air 2 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 3 | Strength 3

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Club 5k3 (Complex) or Thrown Rock 7k4 (Simple) | Damage: 5k2 (Club) or 3k1 (Rock) | Armor TN: 25 | Wounds: 16: +5; 32: +10; 48: Dead

Skills: Athletics (Climbing) 3, Craft (Shelter) 3, Hunting 3, Jiujutsu 2, Staves 2, Stealth 3.

### New Mundane Animals

COUGAR. Cougars (sometimes called “mountain lions”) are slender and agile predatory cats which live in the mountainous regions of Rokugan. They are carnivores, willing to eat anything they can catch – including men, as well as large herbivores such as deer or wild horses. They typically catch their prey by stalking and ambushing it, then hiding the corpse in a tree for later consumption. Cougars are solitary by nature, except when the females are raising their young.

Air 2 | Earth 3 | Fire 1 | Water 3 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Strength 4

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Claw 5k3 (Simple) or Bite 6k3 (Complex) | Damage: 4k2 (Claw) or 4k4 (Bite) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 12: +5; 24: +10; 36: +15; 48: Dead

Special Abilities: Fear 1.

KOMODO DRAGON. These large predatory lizards can occasionally be found in the Mantis Isles as well as other tropical islands. Their bodies are covered with black and tan scales, and their mouths are edged with short serrated teeth. Their blood-red saliva is toxically septic, causing lethal infections in those they bite. Although they appear slow, they can put on bursts of speed, and thus prefer to attack from ambush. Due to their fearsome appearance and nature, komodo dragons have sometimes been mistaken for Shadowlands creatures.

Air 1 | Earth 2 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Stamina 3 | Agility 4 | Perception 4

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Bite 5k4 (Complex) | Damage: 3k2 | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 4 | Wounds: 24: +10; 48: Dead

Skills: Hunting 2, Stealth 2. Special Abilities: Fear 2. Poison Bite – A komodo dragon’s bite is septic. Anyone bitten must immediately make a Stamina Roll at TN 20 or become infected, losing 1 Rank of Stamina every six hours thereafter. This continues until 24 hours have elapsed, the victim dies, or the infection is magically cured. Swift 2. Vibration Sense – A komodo dragon can sense prey up to a half-mile away through the vibrations their footsteps make in the ground.

MONGOOSE. A small mammal that inhabits the jungle forests of the Ivory Kingdoms, although it has also occasionally appeared on the Mantis Isles. A mongoose has brown, silver, or black fur covering its slender body, and a long snout with a mouth full of needle-sharp teeth. It eats insects, birds, and frogs, but is also known to hunt snakes – including extremely large and dangerous snakes. The Ivinda, the native people of the Ivory Kingdoms, revere the mongoose for its skill at killing snakes, and refuse to ever hunt it.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 4 | Stamina 2 | Agility 4 | Perception 3

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Bite 6k4 (Simple) | Damage: 2k2 | Armor TN: 25 | Wounds: 8: +10; 16: Dead

Skills: Defense 4, Hunting 3, Stealth 3. Special Abilities: Swift 3.

PANDA. A rare variety of bear with distinctive black-and-white patches in its thick fur coat. Pandas live primarily in mountainous regions, close to the bamboo forests which are their favorite food. They tend to be solitary creatures and seldom attack others unless provoked. The panda’s exotic appearance makes it appealing to Rokugani nobles with a taste for the unusual, and consequently the creatures are sometimes captured and put on display in the gardens of wealthy samurai.

Air 1 | Earth 6 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 2 | Agility 2 | Strength 6

Initiative: 3k2 | Attack: Claw 3k2 (Simple) | Damage: 6k1 | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 9 | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: Dead

Skills: Athletics (Climbing) 2. Special Abilities: Huge.

RHINOCEROS. A large horned quadruped that lives primarily in the open plains of the northern Ivory Kingdoms. It can weigh up to a ton and has a thick gray hide, similar to that of an elephant. The rhinoceros is an herbivore subsisting primarily on grass and leaves, but is notoriously ill-tempered and extremely aggressive. Its eyesight is poor, but its hearing is acute. Rhinos are extremely fast and able to make sharp turns, much to the surprise of their enemies.

Air 1 | Earth 5 | Fire 1 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Strength 6

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Gore 6k3 (Simple) | Damage: 7k2 | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 6 | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: +15; 120: Dead

Skills: Defense 3, Intimidation 2. Special Abilities: Fear 2 (when in Full Attack). Furious Charge – When a rhinoceros is in Full Attack stance, it may make the Knockdown maneuver and gains a Free Raise when doing so. Huge. Swift 2. Trample – A rhinoceros facing a Prone opponent can execute a trample attack as a Simple Action, rolling 8k4 to attack and 10k4 damage.

### Additional Supernatural Creatures

BASAN. The Basan are creatures from Chikushudo, sometimes referred to as “mountain roosters,” who live primarily in mountainous regions. They are also called Basa-basa, an onomatopoeic name mimicking their distinct call. Basan resemble oversized roosters with vibrant plumage that can glow like a sunset or darken to pitch black. They breathe blue or green flames, although these flames do not burn unless the Basan is angered or frightened. They are nocturnal and, due to their ability to darken their feathers, are rarely seen – although their noise can keep entire villages awake.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 2 | Water 1 | Reflexes 3

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Spur 4k2 (Complex) | Damage: 2k1 | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 10: +10; 20: Dead

Special Abilities: Breathe Flames – If a Basan is angry or afraid, the colorful flames it breathes can suddenly turn searing hot and dangerous. The Basan may breathe flames as a Complex Action, automatically striking any one target within 15’ of it with a DR of 4k3. Plumage – As a Free Action, a Basan can change its plumage to any shade (or mixture) of red, orange, blue, and black. When a Basan uses this ability to camouflage itself, observers must succeed in a Hunting/Perception roll at TN 30 to spot it. Spirit. Swift 3 (when flying).

FURARIBI. A Furaribi is the spark of a human soul, a sort of lingering spiritual after-image trapped in the mortal world after death – the name literally means “aimless flame.” They are floating balls of purple fire that drag long tails of light as they move, and tend to linger in places where their bodies died, retaining some residual spark of the personalities they had in life. Some play pranks on travelers, and if they were the victim of poison or murder, they may attempt to lure other mortals to their deaths. The touch of a Furaribi burns the spirit, causing the victim to gradually waste away and die of illness, his own soul drawn to the Furaribi that touched it.

Air 0 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 0 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Perception 2

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Touch 3k3 (Complex, ignores armor) | Damage: See Soul Touch | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: N/A | Wounds: N/A

Special Abilities: Fear 2. Insubstantial – A Furaribi can pass through any solid non-living object. Superior Invulnerability – A Furaribi is a creature of pure spiritual energy, and as such is immune to nearly all physical and magical attacks. Striking it with jade, crystal, or obsidian, or with spells that have the Jade or Crystal property, will not harm it but will cause it to retreat from the area for at least a full day. Soul Touch – The Furaribi’s Touch attack ignores the target’s armor. Anyone touched by a Furaribi loses the ability to spend Void Points for 24 hours, and loses the ability to make Stamina rolls to resist sickness or poison for the same period. The duration is cumulative with each touch. Spirit. Swift 4. Ward Vulnerability – A Furaribi cannot defeat or pass through any kind of magical ward, and will not enter an area protected by the spell Ward of Purity.

### Elemental Terrors of Fire

The Greater and Lesser Terrors of Fire can be found anywhere in Rokugan or the Shadowlands. They can be summoned by maho-tsukai, but because the Terrors of Fire obey only the Dark Oracle of Fire, anyone who summons them cannot actually control them.

GREATER ELEMENTAL TERROR OF FIRE: TAKI-BI NO ONI. The Greater Terror of Fire resembles a woman of otherworldly beauty whose body is made entirely of intense green fire. This demon can fly, hurls balls of flame, and controls the path and intensity of all mundane flames around it. It burns so hot that those who merely approach suffer injury and heat stroke. Taki-bi no Oni takes special delight in inflicting burns on mortals, as well as incinerating temples and burning important documents. It seldom remains for long in any one place, instead wandering the land and leaving a flaming wasteland behind.

Air 3 | Earth 4 | Fire 7 | Water 2 | Reflexes 4

Initiative: 6k4 | Attack: Flaming Fist 7k7 (Simple) | Damage: 4k1 + Burning Touch | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 10 | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Intimidation 5. Special Abilities: Aura of Heat – Anyone within 10’ of the Taki-bi no Oni becomes Fatigued by heatstroke during the Reactions Stage of the first Round. Burning Touch – Wooden weapons such as staves and arrows are incinerated after striking the Taki-bi no Oni. The Fist attack ignores all effects of the defender’s armor. Anyone who touches or is touched by the Taki-bi no Oni is set on fire, burning for 1k1 damage per Round until the fire is extinguished. Fear 4. Flight – The Taki-bi no Oni may fly at will and is considered to have Swift 2 when flying. Gout of Flame – As a Complex Action, the Taki-bi no Oni may hurl a ball of fire with a range of 500’ that erupts into a violent fiery explosion, inflicting 5k4 of fire damage on everyone within 10’ of the impact point. Superior Invulnerability – In addition to the normal benefits of Invulnerability, the Taki-bi no Oni is completely immune to fire-based attacks of all kinds.

LESSER TERROR OF FIRE: MOETECHI NO ONI. The Moetechi no Oni are less powerful than the Taki-bi no Oni, and appear to be small wisps of flame that retain a vaguely humanoid shape. They are incorporeal and can pass through solid barriers easily, but everything they pass through is afflicted with intense heat and fire. They revel in pure destruction, with no method or purpose to the chaos they inflict. Notably, if ten or more Moetechi fuse together, they become a Taki-bi no Oni.

Air 2 | Earth 2 | Fire 4 | Water 1 | Reflexes 3

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Burning Touch 6k4 (Simple) | Damage: 1k1 | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 6 | Wounds: 20: +5; 40: +10; 60: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Skills: Intimidation 2. Special Abilities: Burning Touch – Wooden weapons such as staves and arrows are incinerated after striking the Moetechi no Oni. The Touch attack ignores all effects of the defender’s armor. Anyone who touches or is touched by the Moetechi no Oni is set on fire, burning for 1k1 damage per Round until extinguished. Fear 3. Fusion – If two or more Moetechi no Oni come together, they can “fuse” into a single demon, gaining +10 Wounds each time they do so. If ten or more fuse together they become a Taki-bi no Oni. Incorporeal – The Moetechi no Oni floats through the air and may pass through solid objects at will; any such objects which are flammable will be set on fire by this. Magic Resistance – Three Ranks of Magic Resistance against all Fire spells. Superior Invulnerability – In addition to the normal benefits of Invulnerability, the Moetechi no Oni is completely immune to mundane fire. Swift 3.

WANYUDO. A Wanyudo is the re-embodied form of a specific corrupted mortal soul that fell to Jigoku – either a monk who disregarded his oaths, or a daimyo who treated his heimin subjects with especial cruelty. It takes the appearance of a decapitated head affixed to the hub of an oxcart-wheel, set ablaze with otherworldly fire. The eyes are burning and tormented, the face forever twisted into a terrifying grimace of pain and anguish; it is not capable of speech, although it can emit a horrifying scream. The Wanyudo turns on its axle as it moves through the air, leaving trails of flame behind it. It is tormented by its state, but hates the virtuous even more than its own torment, and always viciously attacks any virtuous mortal it meets.

Air 1 | Earth 3 | Fire 3 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 4 | Strength 3

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Crush 5k4 (Simple) | Damage: 5k2 plus fire | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 10 (5 against crystal or obsidian, 20 against magical fire) | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Burning Touch – The touch of a Wanyudo will set alight any easily flammable objects such as paper or clothing. Anyone struck by the Wanyudo’s Crush attack will also be set afire, suffering 1k1 Wounds per Round until the fire is doused. Fear 4. Flying – The Wanyudo flies at all times, rolling through the air on its supernatural wheel, and thus is not troubled by terrain obstacles. Spirit. Strength of the Dead – The terrible scream of the Wanyudo has a dreadful effect on mortals. Once per hour the Wanyudo may scream as a Complex Action; anyone within 50 feet who hears the scream must make a Contested Willpower roll with the demon. Failure means the victims are Stunned. Superior Invulnerability – In addition to the normal benefits of Invulnerability, the Wanyudo is also completely immune to mundane fire and has increased Reduction against magical fire. Swift 2.

### Additional Mundane Animals

NIGHT HERON. A nocturnal bird with black, brown, and white plumage, found in the forests of the Phoenix, Crane, and Unicorn lands. It prefers damp areas and swamps, and will eat anything – insects, fish, frogs, crustaceans, and even rats and moles. On nights of a full moon, the night heron will glow a pale blue (a phenomenon called Aosaginohi or “Blue-Heron Fire”) due to phosphorescent spores that adhere to its plumage while it is fishing. Night herons are not aggressive when facing larger opponents and always prefer to flee from danger, although they will fight if cornered.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 3 | Perception 3

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Beak 3k3 (Simple) | Damage: 2k1 | Armor TN: 20 | Wounds: 8: +5; 16: Dead

Skills: Hunting 3, Stealth 3. Special Abilities: Eye Strike – If a night heron inflicts more than 10 Wounds with its beak, it has struck and destroyed its foe’s eye. Swift 3 (when flying).

ROOSTER. The rooster is associated with Amaterasu due to its greeting the sun each morning, and some peasants believe the crowing of a rooster can banish evil spirits. Shinseist monks consider roosters to be good luck and allow them to walk freely through temples and shrines. Roosters are fierce birds when facing foes of their own size (or smaller) but will not fight larger enemies.

Air 0 | Earth 1 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Reflexes 2 | Willpower 2 | Agility 2 | Perception 2

Initiative: 2k2 | Attack: Spur 3k2 (Simple) | Damage: 1k1 | Armor TN: 15 | Wounds: 5: +5; 10: Dead

Skills: Hunting 2, Stealth 2. Special Abilities: Swift 1 (Swift 2 when flying).

### Elemental Terrors of Void

The Elemental Terrors of Void are rarely encountered, but their touch can potentially be felt at any location and at any time. They are the servants, assassins, and spies of the Dark Oracle of Void – one of the most powerful servants of the Realm of Evil – but can also sometimes be summoned by maho-tsukai or Lost of exceptional power. The Greater Terror is sent as an assassin to tear an enemy’s soul and body from the great cycle of rebirth itself, while its weaker cousin more often serves as an agent of information and chaos.

GREATER ELEMENTAL TERROR OF VOID: AKERU NO ONI. The Akeru no Oni prefers to remain hidden, but when seen it appears to be a huge humanoid beast rippling with the dark energy of its twisted and stolen Void. A negative energy exudes from its form and glows through the eyes of its insectoid head. Akeru no Oni waits patiently, sucking up the Void of those around it until capable of unleashing its devastating Void Strike. The creature is by no means a coward, but it will not hesitate to retreat at any sign of being outmatched, preferring to return when the advantage has shifted in its favor.

Air 4 | Earth 4 | Fire 4 | Water 4 | Void 1 (see below)

Initiative: 9k4 | Attack: Claws 9k4 (Simple), Void Strike 9k4 (Complex) | Damage: 3k3 (Claw), 10k10 (Void Strike, see below) | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 6 (bypassed by jade, crystal, or obsidian) | Wounds: 32: +5; 64: +10; 128: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Hunting 4, Intimidation 4, Stealth 6. Special Abilities: Fear 5. Huge. Invulnerable. Magic Resistance – An Akeru no Oni has three Ranks of Magic Resistance against Void spells only. Sap the Void – Void Points spent within 100’ of an Akeru have their effects cancelled, and the Akeru adds these points to its own pool of Void. Additionally, anytime the Akeru strikes a target with its Claw attack, it may make an Opposed Void Roll; success allows it to sap one Void Point from the target in addition to inflicting normal damage. Telepathy – The Akeru does not speak. Its voice is simply heard, forced upon the minds of those within a thousand feet. However, it cannot read thoughts other than those directed toward it. Void Strike – The Akeru no Oni is capable of unleashing its stolen Void in a horrifying beam of pure energy with a range of 50’. This attack requires it to have its full 7 Void Points, and uses up all but 1 of those Void Points. Anyone killed by Void Strike is ripped from the Celestial Wheel, permanently removed – body and soul – from the cycle of Rebirth. Void Use – The Akeru is one of the few inhuman creatures capable of using the Void in the same manner as mortals. Its Void is not inherent and must be stolen using the Sap the Void ability. The Akeru’s default Void Rank is 1 (maintained by slowly leeching Void from the fabric of the surrounding universe), but increases as it accumulates Void Points to a maximum of 7. If the Akeru is ever reduced to a Void Ring of zero, it is instantly destroyed. Walk Through Nothing – The Akeru is capable of slipping between the physical elements of the world, walking through the “realm of Void.” To find the Akeru while it is hidden in this way, a character must succeed at an Opposed Roll of Perception against the Akeru’s current Void Ring. The Akeru must emerge and reveal itself in order to attack.

LESSER ELEMENTAL TERROR OF VOID: KUKANCHI NO KANSEN. The Kukanchi no Kansen exist as a tiny smear of liquid night, as dark as the space between the stars. Like their more powerful cousins, Kukanchi prefer to remain in their natural hidden state, and they do not have to reveal themselves to unleash their Void Leech attacks. They have both a natural mischievous curiosity and a sinister arrogance, sometimes leading them to inadvertently reveal themselves to creatures with the ability to detect mystical or hidden things.

Air 2 | Earth 2 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 3 | Perception 3

Initiative: 5k4 | Attack: Void Leech 4k3 (Simple) | Damage: 2k1 plus Void Leech | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: None | Wounds: 16: +5; 32: +10; 48: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Skills: Stealth 4. Special Abilities: Insubstantial – The Kukanchi remains in a constant ephemeral state even when it attacks. It moves without sound, passing through physical objects as easily as through air. The Kukanchi no Kansen remains invisible (even when attacking) unless it wishes to reveal itself. Individuals capable of perceiving invisible creatures must still make a Contested Roll of Investigation/Perception against the Kukanchi’s Stealth/Agility. Invulnerable. Spirit. Swift 3. Telepathy – Like their more potent brethren, the Kukanchi do not actually speak, but are instead “heard” within the mind of their targets within a thousand feet. They are also capable of perceiving the basic surface thoughts and emotional state of their targets. If summoned or in the service of a powerful being (such as an Oracle or Akeru no Oni), the range of Kukanchi’s telepathy is infinite. Void Leech – If one or more of the Kukanchi no Kansen’s damage dice explode, it also drains one Void Point from its victim and heals itself 15 Wounds.

### Children of the Last Wish

These entities are intelligent (or at least semi-intelligent) creations of pure Void, born from the power of Isawa’s Last Wish. Physically, they appear as semi-corporeal miniature female samurai, their eyes glowing with the magical power which suffuses their beings. Their motivations are mysterious; they were created as companions and guardians to the Last Wish, and following the destruction of that entity their primary interest seems to be the creation of a new Wish. In the meantime they are willing to serve the Phoenix, although the clan has been wary of calling on their power.

Air 1 | Earth 2 | Fire 2 | Water 1 | Void 5 | Awareness 4 | Willpower 4 | Agility 3 | Perception 3

Initiative: 6k4 | Attack: “Sword” 6k3 (Complex, see Void Weapon) | Damage: 4k2 | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 10 against Magic, total against all other effects (see Superior Invulnerability) | Wounds: 100: Dead

Skills: Any Skill needed at 3. Special Abilities: Incorporeal – The Children can pass through non-living physical matter as easily as they walk through the air. Spellcasting – The Children can cast spells (including Void spells) as though they are Rank 3 shugenja with an Affinity for Void and no Deficiency. They seem to be able to cast any spell they wish within those limitations. Spirit. Superior Invulnerability – The Children can only be harmed by magic, and are wholly immune to physical attacks no matter what spiritual substances are used against them. Void Weapon – The sword-shaped objects which the Children use as weapons are essentially just Void wrapped in a thin sheath of physical existence. As such, they ignore the effects of armor on their opponents’ Armor TN, and their damage cannot be reduced or negated in any way. Void Usage – The Children can use Void Points, but may only spend them to enhance Skill Rolls.

### Water-Realm Supernatural Creatures

HINOTAMA. Hinotama are water creatures from Sakkaku that pass through temporary spirit portals during violent oceanic storms, combining their water with the essences of Fire and Air to create a playful but wicked spirit. They are drawn to metallic objects, especially the blades of samurai, and manifest as balls of purple or blue light. Entire crews have sometimes dived overboard to escape Hinotama, and sailors consider them to be ill-omened. There are tales of enraged Hinotama exploding in furious lightning across the entire deck of a ship.

Air 2 | Earth 0 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 4 | Willpower 3 | Perception 4

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Touch 4k2 (Complex, Stun) | Damage: See Stunning Jolt | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: N/A | Wounds: 40: Dead (a Hinotama cannot actually be killed, but can be dispersed and rendered harmless)

Special Abilities: Fear 3. Elemental Immunities – Due to their nature as a combination of Elemental spirits, Hinotama are wholly immune to Fire, Air, and Water magic. Insubstantial – The Hinotama is essentially a floating ball of Elemental energy and as such can freely pass through material objects. Its Touch attack ignores all armor on the target. Magic Resistance – The Hinotama has two Ranks of Magic Resistance to Earth and Void magic. Spirit. Stunning Jolt – Anyone who is touched by a Hinotama suffers a violent electrical jolt. The character must roll Stamina at TN 20; success means he is Dazed, while failure means he is Stunned. Swift 4 (the Hinotama floats through the air).

NURE-ONNA (THE WET WOMAN). The so-called “Wet Woman” is a unique immortal creature with ties to Sakkaku, the Realm of Mischief, and Gaki-do, the Realm of the Hungry Dead. Supposedly once a beautiful woman with numerous suitors, she was later abandoned by the man who fathered her child. She appears as a beautiful but melancholy girl, usually encountered while washing her long inky-black hair at the shore of a river, lake, or the ocean. If she is troubled by anyone, especially a man, she transforms into a huge snake with a woman’s head. The Nure-Onna is sometimes encountered with a small “baby” that is actually a konak jiji.

Air 3 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Awareness 4 | Agility 4 | Strength 4

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Constriction Grapple 8k4 (Simple) | Damage: 4k2 (Constrict) | Armor TN: 30 (20 in human form) | Reduction: 10 (in serpent form only) | Wounds: 24: +5; 48: +10; 72: Dead

Skills: Acting 3, Defense 4, Etiquette 2, Jiujutsu 4. Special Abilities: Fear 4 (in serpent form only). Constricting Attack – In its serpent form, the Wet Woman always attacks by Grappling its chosen foe with its massive serpentine body. It can only Grapple one foe at a time, and typically tries to crush each opponent in turn. Huge (in serpent form only). Shapechanging – The Wet Woman can change from human to serpent form with a Free Action, and from serpent to human form with a Complex Action. Spirit.

YAMATO NO OROCHI (The Eight-Forked Serpent). The mighty “Eight-Forked Serpent” – an immense creature with eight heads and eight tails – appears in a number of ancient Rokugani legends. Supposedly it was the first creation of Suitengu, Fortune of the Sea, and terrorized the open seas in ancient times. Osano-Wo battled the deadly creature, subduing it and sending it deep beneath the waves.

Air 1 | Earth 5 | Fire 2 | Water 6 | Reflexes 6 | Agility 5 | Strength 9

Initiative: 8k6 | Attack: Bite 8k5 (Free, up to 4 per Round), Torso Bludgeon 10k6 (Complex, see Special Abilities) | Damage: 9k4 (Bite), 9k2 (Bludgeon) | Armor TN: 40 | Reduction: 15 | Wounds: 40: +5; 80: +10; 120: +15; 200: Dead

Special Abilities: Aquatic – The Yamato no Orochi cannot leave the ocean, does not need to breathe, and does not need to make Athletics rolls to swim. Fear 5. Huge. Multiple Bites – The Yamato no Orochi’s Bite attack is a Free Action that can be taken up to four times in the same Round. Swift 4 (while swimming). Torso Bludgeon – The Yamato no Orochi may choose to fall upon its foes with its massive torso. It cannot Bite on the same Turn that it uses this attack. The Torso Bludgeon attack may strike up to six opponents who are within 30’ of each other and ignores the effects of armor.

### Elemental Terrors of Water

The Elemental Terrors of Water were created by the Dark Oracles in the twelfth century, and normally reside deep in the Shadowlands in a dead volcano called the Womb of Terror. The Greater and Lesser Terrors of Water can be found anywhere in Rokugan or the Shadowlands. They can be summoned by maho-tsukai, but because the Terrors of Water obey only the Dark Oracle of Water, anyone who summons them cannot actually control them.

GREATER ELEMENTAL TERROR OF WATER: MIZU NO ONI. The Greater Terror of Water takes the form of a polluted body of liquid. It favors ambush tactics, hiding in a large body of water and then attacking by surprise. It preferentially singles out opponents of high importance with little defensive capability. Mizu no Oni can shapeshift into any creature it has engulfed, so a favored tactic is to lure a samurai into water and then take the victim’s place. While in the form of its victims the Mizu no Oni retains their memories and speech, allowing it to infiltrate homes, castles, or military headquarters and then wreak havoc. Mizu no Oni often leave behind corrupted bodies of water as signs of their presence.

Air 4 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 7 | Intelligence 3

Initiative: 6k4 | Attack: Engulf 8k4 (Complex) | Damage: 7k3 | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 15 (10 against jade or crystal, 5 against fire-based attacks) | Wounds: 30: +4; 60: +10; 90: +15; 120: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Acting 4, Stealth 4. Special Abilities: Aquatic – The Mizu no Oni moves through water at the same speed as it moves on land and does not need to make Athletics rolls to swim. Engulf – Anyone struck by the oni’s Engulf attack is trapped within the oni’s watery body until they can win an Opposed Strength Roll (attempting this roll is a Complex Action). They take Engulf damage each Round that they fail to escape. Fear 4. Huge. Instantaneous Movement – While in its true non-shapeshifted form, a Mizu no Oni can collapse in on itself and disappear, reappearing an instant later anywhere within 500’. This is considered a Complex Move Action. Shapeshifting – A Mizu no Oni can shapeshift into any creature it has killed with its Engulf attack (Complex Action). While in the form of its victim it has access to the victim’s memories and voice, though not to their Skills. It can change back to its normal liquid shape as a Free Action. It loses the form and memories of its old victim once it Engulfs a new victim. Superior Invulnerability – In addition to the normal benefits of Invulnerability, the Mizu no Oni is completely immune to Water magic. Vulnerable to Fire – The Mizu no Oni takes an extra +1k0 damage from mundane fire attacks and an extra +1k1 damage from Fire spells.

LESSER ELEMENTAL TERROR OF WATER: OYUCHI NO KANSEN. The Oyuchi no Kansen is physically similar to the Mizu no Oni, but smaller. Like other Lesser Terrors, the Lesser Terror of Water is not truly an oni but rather a powerful kansen of Water. It can take on the appearance of any fluid substance such as blood, sake, water, or oil. Oyuchi no Kansen are primarily spies but also act as assassins of weaker targets. They can hide within corpses and sometimes animate those corpses to serve as their “mounts.” If they serve the Dark Oracle of Water well enough, Oyuchi no Kansen are granted the power to become a true Mizu no Oni.

Air 2 | Earth 2 | Fire 1 | Water 4 | Intelligence 2

Initiative: 3k2 | Attack: Pseudopod 4k2 (Complex) | Damage: 4k1 | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 16: +5; 32: +10; 64: Dead | Taint Rank: 3

Skills: Stealth 6. Special Abilities: Aquatic – The Oyuchi no Kansen moves through water at the same speed as it moves on land and does not need to make Athletics rolls to swim. Aquatic Camouflage – The Oyuchi no Kansen can look exactly like a normal liquid and can also hide almost undetectably within a larger body of water. Detecting it in these circumstances requires a Contested Roll of Investigation (Notice)/Perception against the Lesser Terror’s Stealth/Water. Corpse Animation – Once per day as a Complex Action the Oyuchi no Kansen can possess and animate a dead body, causing the corpse to function exactly like a zombie. The Lesser Terror is safely hidden within the zombie’s torso and cannot be reached or harmed until the zombie is destroyed. Fear 2. Magic Resistance – The Oyuchi no Kansen has three Ranks of Magic Resistance against Water magic. Vulnerable to Fire – The Oyuchi no Kansen takes an extra +1k0 damage from mundane fire attacks and an extra +1k1 damage from Fire spells.

### Additional Mundane Animals: Aquatic

EEL (DEN UNAGI). Most eels are not dangerous; they feed upon other fish and even the largest specimens rarely attack humanity. However, Mantis sailors visiting foreign waters have reported a type of eel, the den unagi, with the dangerous ability to discharge a powerful jolt of lightning when harassed.

Air 1 | Earth 2 | Fire 0 | Water 2 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 2. Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Bite 3k2 (Simple) | Damage: 2k1 | Armor TN: 15 | Wounds: 5: +5; 10: Dead. Special Abilities: Aquatic – Eels cannot leave the water, do not need to breathe, and do not need to make Athletics rolls to swim. Electrical Jolt – The den unagi can unleash a jolt of electricity once per day. Anyone in the water who is within 10’ of the eel suffers 2k1 damage and must roll Earth at TN 20 or be Stunned. Swift 1.

STING RAY (KOSEN O SASU). A manta ray found in the waters around the Isles of Spice and Silk. Although not inherently aggressive, its stinger makes it dangerous to hunt.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 0 | Water 1 | Agility 2 | Perception 2. Initiative: 2k2 | Attack: Stinger 3k2 (Simple) | Damage: 2k1 | Armor TN: 10 | Wounds: 10: +5; 20: Dead. Special Abilities: Aquatic – Manta rays cannot leave the water, do not need to breathe, and do not need to make Athletics rolls to swim. Poison Stinger – The manta ray’s stinger contains a painful and disabling nerve poison. Anyone struck by the stinger is considered to be Dazed. Swift 1.

BLUE WHALE (KUJIRA). Whales are considered the favored creature of Suitengu because of their enormous size and power. Blue whales have lengths up to 100 feet and weights exceeding 190 tons. Blue whales are peaceful and eat plankton.

Air 2 | Earth 7 | Fire 2 | Water 4 | Agility 3. Initiative: 2k2 | Attack: Tail Smash 6k3 (Complex, see Special Abilities) | Damage: 4k4 | Armor TN: 20 | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: Dead. Special Abilities: Aquatic – Whales cannot leave the water and do not need to make Athletics rolls to swim. They do need to surface to breathe and can drown if forced to remain underwater for an extended period of time. Huge. Tail Smash – A blue whale’s Tail Smash attack can strike up to four targets simultaneously if they are within 15’ of each other.

KILLER WHALE (“BLACKFISH”). Killer whales are smaller than blue whales, typically 30 feet in length and 10 tons, with dorsal fins taller than a man. Killer whales are aggressive predators who hunt other sea creatures, including blue whales.

Air 3 | Earth 4 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Agility 4 | Perception 4. Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Bite 6k4 (Simple) | Damage: 5k3 | Armor TN: 25 | Wounds: 32: +5; 48: +10; 64: Dead. Special Abilities: Aquatic – Whales cannot leave the water and do not need to make Athletics rolls to swim. They do need to surface to breathe and can drown if forced to remain underwater for an extended period of time. Huge. Swift 1.

