## 54.5 Oni of the Shadowlands

There are few words in the Rokugani language that inspire as much fear and loathing as “oni.” Every citizen has heard of the foul beasts and is aware of the horror they can unleash. Oni are the natural denizens of Jigoku, the Realm of Evil – the antithesis of the life, joy, and goodness that exists in the Celestial Heavens. Based on the understanding of mortals, the oni are formless spirits within the Realm of Evil, simple entities that vary in power and influence. Their only unifying characteristics are their dedication to evil and suffering and their undying hunger to escape into the mortal realm.

It is not easy for oni to enter the mortal world. The first way is to pass through a spirit portal into Ningen-do. Only one stable portal into the Realm of Evil is known to exist: the so-called Festering Pit of Fu Leng, deep within the Shadowlands, created by the fall of Fu Leng from the Celestial Heavens at the dawn of the Empire. The second, and fortunately less frequent, means for an oni to reach the mortal realm is through a summoning ritual employed by foolish and power-hungry humans. This process allows an oni to manifest in the mortal realm by borrowing the name and essence of a mortal – usually its summoner. The longer the bond between oni and mortal exists, the more of the mortal’s soul is absorbed by the demon. An oni freed by the full absorption of a human name and soul is known as an Oni Lord – an impossibly powerful entity that gains the ability to spawn lesser versions of itself. The number of Oni Lords that have existed is mercifully few, perhaps no more than half a dozen, but each one has left deep scars on the Empire requiring decades or generations to heal.

### Creating a New Oni (GM Guidelines)

Since every oni is unique, what follows are general guidelines for GMs to build oni of various power levels.

EARTH: Earth 1 – Feeble, almost incorporeal. Earth 2 – Weakest normal oni, often works through others. Earth 3 – Average minor oni; challenge for 2–3 Rank 2–3 samurai. Earth 4 – Average normal oni; challenge for 2–3 Rank 3–4 samurai or a full group of Rank 2. Earth 5 – Tough, very difficult to kill; challenge for 2–3 Rank 4–5 samurai or a full group of Rank 3. Earth 6+ – Major challenge requiring high-rank groups; usually has high Reduction and/or Invulnerability. Stamina higher than Willpower means more physical endurance; Willpower higher than Stamina means more powerful mental actions and temptations.

AIR: Air 1 – Extremely dimwitted and barely mobile, suited to the smallest spawn or virtually immobile oni. Air 2 – Not particularly swift; acts as quickly as an average peasant. Air 3 – Average oni; fairly skilled at reading intent and fairly quick to react. Air 4 – Above average, faster reactions and better at reading intentions. Air 5 – Quick on the draw; can see into people’s souls. Air 6+ – Swift as the wind, nearly omniscient in reading others. Reflexes higher than Awareness means faster physically and harder to hit; Awareness higher than Reflexes means more attuned to the feelings and thoughts of those around it.

FIRE: Fire 1 – Pathetic; dumb as rocks. Fire 2 – Below average; as powerful and intelligent as a peasant or goblin. Fire 3 – Average; hits fairly often, somewhat intelligent. Fire 4 – Planners and warriors; good at both combat and making plans. Fire 5 – Masters of the physical and mental arts; almost always hit and can plan around most samurai groups. Fire 6+ – Truly superhuman in martial ability and intelligence. Agility higher than Intelligence means more physically oriented; Intelligence higher than Agility means a planner or mastermind.

WATER: Water 1 – Nearly immobile, weak, almost blind. Water 2 – Average mortal speed and strength. Water 3 – Average oni; slightly stronger and more perceptive than a mortal. Water 4 – Faster and stronger than normal. Water 5 – Faster than a galloping horse. Water 6+ – Immensely strong; can perceive what others cannot. Strength higher than Perception means more physically devastating; Perception higher than Strength means a more observant scout-type.

REDUCTION: Under 5 – Token reduction; slightly tougher skin. 5 – Equal to heavy armor. 6–10 – Very thick hide or armored scales. 11–15 – Unnaturally hardened skin, otherworldly resistance, or stone flesh. 16–20 – Truly tough; few samurai will encounter these. 21+ – Juggernauts; ridiculously hard to kill, though sometimes reduced against specific attacks such as jade, crystal, or fire.

WOUNDS: Earth 2 – 8: +5; 16: +10; 24: +15; 36: Dead. Earth 3 – 12: +5; 24: +10; 36: +15; 48: Dead. Earth 4 – 16: +5; 32: +10; 48: +15; 72: Dead. Earth 5 – 25: +5; 50: +10; 75: +15; 100: Dead. Earth 6+ – No set formula; a simple method is to multiply Earth Rank by 5 and add it to itself for each subsequent Wound rank. For example Earth 7 = 35: +5; 70: +10; 105: +15; 140: Dead.

ATTACKS: Treat the oni as having Skill ranks equal to the Insight Rank of the PCs facing it. Most oni do not suffer penalties for being “untrained” and should never have such penalties applied. A powerful or multi-attack oni should attack as a Simple Action; slower or weaker oni attack as a Complex Action.

TAINT RANK: Oni typically have Taint Ranks between 4 and 7. Note that Shadowlands creatures, unlike the Lost, do not gain any combat bonuses from their Taint.

SPECIAL ABILITIES: When designing special abilities, simplicity is the watchword. Avoid abilities requiring multiple die-rolls or those that read as “I win no matter what the PCs do.” Look to existing published oni abilities first and adapt as needed.

### Akaru no Oni, the Web Lord

Massive and ponderous, Akaru no Oni vaguely resemble spiders with long segmented bodies and dozens of jointed legs, spinning vast webs in rocky recesses or caves where prey passes on a semi-regular basis. They prefer to allow prey to become trapped and wait for it to grow weak before feasting, but will not hesitate to destroy anything that threatens them.

Air 3 | Earth 4 | Fire 1 | Water 4 | Agility 4

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Claws 6k4 (Simple), Bite 4k4 (Complex) | Damage: 4k4 (Claws), 6k4 (Bite) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 25: +5; 50: +10; 75: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Spinnerets – Akaru no Oni can project powerful webs of a thick adhesive substance as a Complex Action with an attack roll of 6k4. If the webs hit they do not inflict damage but the target is automatically Entangled (TN 20 to escape). Web Traps – Akaru no Oni spreads its webs where prey might come into contact by accident. Anyone who stumbles into the oni’s webs is immediately Entangled (TN 20 to escape).

### Arugai no Oni, Immortal Engine of Destruction

There are very few Arugai no Oni, which is a very good thing for Rokugan. These unstoppable engines of destruction were spawned in the lava pits of Jigoku. They stand slightly over ten feet in height, roughly humanoid with a long tail, three two-foot-long claws at the end of each arm, and a mouth full of sharpened teeth. Two fin-like horns grow from the side of their heads. They are simple opponents – not particularly intelligent – but what they lack in sophistication they make up for in sheer staying power. Their bodies are extremely tough and their thick grayish-purple skin is difficult to penetrate. When they do suffer injuries, wounds heal almost instantly. Because they were spawned from fire they are virtually immune to extreme heat, both mundane and magical. To actually slay an Arugai no Oni, one must destroy the creature’s very small heart, hidden deep within its armored chest. The Arugai no Oni are also very territorial, and when they encounter each other will fight to the death.

Air 4 | Earth 7 | Fire 2 | Water 6 | Stamina 8 | Agility 5 | Strength 8

Initiative: 9k4 | Attack: Claws 10k5 (Simple), Tail 10k5 (Simple), Horns 10k5 (Simple) | Damage: 10k4 (Claws), 10k3 (Tail), 10k3 (Horns) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 20 | Wounds: 50: +5; 100: +10; 150: +15; 200: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Special Abilities: Fear 5. Huge. Nearly Immortal – During the Reactions Stage of every Round the oni regenerates 10 Wounds. This regeneration does not stop when the oni is slain, and as soon as it regains any Wounds it will rise from the dead to continue fighting. The only way to truly kill an Arugai no Oni is to find and destroy its heart. The heart is no larger than four Go pieces, set deep within its armored body. It is nearly impossible to find without tearing open the creature’s chest (Investigation / Perception at TN 30). The heart can sustain 10 Wounds before being destroyed. Superior Invulnerability – Invulnerable to fire (both mundane and magical) in addition to resisting mundane weapons. Swift 2. Tail Swipe – May perform Knockdown attacks with its tail and gains a Free Raise when doing so.

### Byoki no Oni, Harbinger of Pestilence

There are precious few entities within the Shadowlands more disgusting than the plague-wracked form of Byoki no Oni. These rancid creatures are inundated with virulent diseases – some accompany them when they first crawl from the Festering Pit, while others they accumulate along the way. They are tall thin humanoids with every square inch of flesh covered in boils, lesions, and pustules that constantly swell, break, drain, and swell anew. The demons literally drip contagion, leaking grotesque pus everywhere. Touching them with bare skin, or allowing their fluids to touch bare skin, virtually guarantees contracting a hideous disease. Even fighting the beasts is risky, since striking them frequently causes a splatter of their blood and pus. Crab who face the most hideous creatures without flinching will avoid Byoki no Oni at all costs.

Air 2 | Earth 5 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Agility 3

Initiative: 3k2 | Attack: Claws 4k2 (Complex) | Damage: 3k3 (Claws) | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 2 | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 90: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Fear 2. Plague Bearer – After any successful attack, the oni and its opponent make a Contested Earth Roll. If the oni wins, the opponent is afflicted with a virulent disease. Every subsequent day, the target must make an Earth Roll at TN 15 or lose 1 Rank in all physical Traits. Three successful consecutive rolls cures the disease; otherwise only magical means can cure it – Medicine rolls have no effect. Splatter – Any time a successful attack is made against a Byoki no Oni, the splatter of fluids affects anyone within 5 feet, who must make Contested Earth Rolls as though the oni had struck them.

### Daku no Oni, Scourge of the Forest

Daku no Oni resemble perpetually burning trees, with bark-like skin and limb-like protrusions growing out of their upper torso and head. Their long arms end in four sharpened claws; their legs end in feet that resemble masses of roots. Daku no Oni have no eyes and locate enemies by sensing vibrations through the ground, using three long prehensile tongues to taste the air. They live in perpetual agony, always wreathed in flames that feed on their wooden flesh. Their wooden flesh is constantly consumed and then almost instantly regenerates; if the flames are doused they restart in a violent flash less than a minute later. They delight in walking through forests and farmlands, setting them alight so trees and farmers may feel the pain they constantly endure.

Air 3 | Earth 4 | Fire 3 | Water 3 | Agility 4 | Strength 5

Initiative: 6k3 | Attack: Claws 6k4 (Simple) | Damage: 5k2 (Claws) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 8 | Wounds: 32: +5; 48: +10; 72: Dead | Taint Rank: 4

Special Abilities: Eyeless – Cannot see, but functions normally with no penalties for blindness. Spells and effects which rely on sight or obstruct vision have no effect on Daku no Oni. Fear 2. Flaming Bark – May tear flaming pieces of bark from themselves and throw at enemies (attack roll 6k3, max range 30 feet, DR 3k2, can set flammable objects alight). Flaming Regeneration – Daku no Oni suffer full damage from magical fire, but regenerate all such damage during the Reactions Stage of the same Round (unless dead). Partial Invulnerability – Invulnerable to normal flames; magical flames damage them normally. Wreathed in Flames – Constantly wreathed in fire. Anything flammable they touch will be set alight. Anyone striking with unarmed attacks or Small weapons automatically suffers 3k2 Wounds; Medium weapons cause 2k1 Wounds; Large weapons or ranged attacks cause no Wounds. The flames can be extinguished with the Extinguish spell or large amounts of water, but relight during the Reactions Stage of the same Round.

### Furu no Oni, Serpent of Flames (Unique)

Millennia ago a powerful fire demon destroyed a community of Naga, then slew the hero who came seeking vengeance, stealing much of his soul and severing it from the Akasha – the most terrible fate imaginable for a Naga. The fire demon, until that time a nearly incorporeal being of flame, possessed the Naga hero’s body and became even more powerful. Furu no Oni barely resembles the Naga whose form it stole. It has a vaguely humanoid upper torso and a snake-like lower body, with six whip-like tentacles instead of arms. Its skin is covered in thorn-shaped protrusions of blackened bone. Its torso and head are split in the center, revealing its hideous molten blood. Its eyes glow with a deep red fire that can see through the most intricate illusions. It is twenty feet in height when it raises itself up on its tail, and over fifty feet in length.

The demon spends much of its time hunting for ancient Naga ruins, as it requires the corpses of Naga in order to spawn more of itself. The Naga can sense its presence through the Akasha, usually able to drive it away from their main settlements, keeping its spawn count thankfully low.

Air 6 | Earth 8 | Fire 8 | Water 6 | Awareness 7 | Intelligence 9 | Strength 8

Initiative: 10k8 | Attack: Tentacles 10k10+2 (Simple or Complex, see below) | Damage: 10k5 (Tentacles) | Armor TN: 40 | Reduction: 25 | Wounds: 80: +5; 160: +10; 240: +15; 320: Dead | Taint Rank: 7

Special Abilities: Burning Blood – Anyone wounding the oni in melee must make a Defense/Reflexes roll (TN 40 for unarmed/Small weapons, TN 35 for Medium, TN 30 for Large) or be splattered by burning blood, taking 5k5 damage (and must roll for Taint exposure). Create Spawn – As a Complex Action, the oni may imbue the corpse of a Naga with its own foul essence; the corpse arises as a Furu no Oni Spawn in the Reactions Stage of the following Round. Extreme Heat – The air around Furu no Oni sets flammable items alight. Non-magical arrows are consumed by fire before they can reach it, causing no damage. Fear 5. Fiery Impalement Attack – If the oni controls a Grapple at the beginning of its Turn, it may as a Simple Action drag the Grappled foe up its thorn-covered body, causing 3k3 damage on the first Round of the Grapple, plus 4k4 fire damage every Round the Grapple is maintained. Flame Sight – Gains +4k0 on all rolls to detect those using Stealth and is immune to all illusion spells. Hurl Flaming Blood – May hurl molten blood at foes within thirty feet (Simple Action, attack roll 10k9, 4k4 fire damage, continues burning for an additional 2k2 the next Round unless washed off). Many Tentacles – Tentacles are normally Simple attacks; as a Complex Action can attack with up to four tentacles at once, up to two of which may be Grapple attempts. Pearl Vulnerability – Any pearl magic spell targeting Furu no Oni gains three Free Raises. Superior Invulnerability – Invulnerable to fire (both magical and mundane) and to mundane attacks. Swift 4.

### Furu no Oni Spawn

Air 4 | Earth 4 | Fire 6 | Water 4 | Strength 5

Initiative: 8k5 | Attack: Tentacles 8k6 (Simple) | Damage: 6k3 (Tentacles) | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 10 | Wounds: 24: +5; 48: +10; 72: +15; 96: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Burning Blood – Anyone wounding the spawn in melee must make a Defense/Reflexes roll (TN 25 for unarmed/Small weapons, TN 20 for Medium, TN 15 for Large) or take 2k2 damage (and must roll for Taint exposure). Fear 3. Fiery Impalement Attack – If the spawn controls a Grapple at the beginning of its Turn, it may as a Simple Action drag the Grappled foe up its thorn-covered body, causing 2k1 damage on the first Round, plus 2k2 fire damage every Round the Grapple is maintained. Hurl Flaming Blood – May hurl molten blood at foes within thirty feet (Simple Action, attack roll 8k4, 2k2 fire damage). Many Tentacles – Normally Simple attacks; as a Complex Action can attack with up to three tentacles at once, one of which may be a Grapple attempt. Pearl Vulnerability – Any pearl magic spell targeting spawn gains three Free Raises. Partial Invulnerability – Invulnerable to fire (both magical and mundane), otherwise takes normal damage. Swift 2.

### Gagoze no Oni, Plague of the Forest

The singular entity known as Gagoze no Oni is perhaps unique among its kind in that it neither came through a portal from Jigoku nor was it summoned – it crawled fully formed from a mire within the Shadowlands Marsh of the Shinomen Mori, a wretched swamp created from the liquefied remains of Shadowlands creatures slain long ago by the Naga race. Long after the Naga had gone to sleep, Gagoze no Oni inexplicably emerged and casually dismissed the Naga wards. It is an exceptionally intelligent and cunning creature, unusual in that it not only commands the power of the kansen but can also compel obedience from the elemental kami as well. Those shugenja who have been in its vicinity and survived report the kami scream in agony at the creature’s commands but appear to have no ability to defy its wishes. Gagoze is particularly reviled by all shugenja aware of its existence, and the Kuni have dedicated themselves to its destruction. It vaguely resembles the Naga it hates, with a serpentine lower body ending in a long and powerful tail, but a human-like upper torso.

Air 3 | Earth 4 | Fire 5 | Water 4 | Reflexes 4

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Claws 5k5 (Simple) | Damage: 4k4 (claws) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 25: +1; 50: +5; 75: +10; 125: +15; 150: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Defense 4, Hunting 6, Intimidation 4, Jiujutsu 4, Spellcraft 5, Stealth 6

Special Abilities: Fear 3. Huge. Invulnerable. Spell Mastery – Gagoze no Oni may cast elemental spells as a Rank 3 shugenja with no Affinity or Deficiency, with no need for scrolls, making it an unpredictable and deadly foe. Taint Affliction – When the Gagoze no Oni turns its burning gaze on its target (a Complex Action), the victim must immediately make a Contested Willpower Roll against the oni. If the oni wins, the victim immediately gains 1 full Rank of Taint. If the target wins, the Taint is averted but the target loses 1 Rank from Fire and Earth Rings for the next 24 hours. The Gagoze can only ever use this power once against each individual it meets.

### Genso no Oni, Dark Warrior

The Genso no Oni is a legend within the Shadowlands, famous even to the Lost and feared by other oni that seem more powerful. It is said to be stronger than the mightiest Hida, faster than the swiftest Kakita, and more fearsome than the fiercest Matsu. Perhaps the most terrible thing about this unique oni is that it resembles and understands the samurai it lives to kill. Genso no Oni is a consummate warrior, flawless in technique and skill. It lives for the challenge of facing worthy foes and destroying them utterly. The beast is an eight-foot-tall humanoid, incredibly well-muscled, with dark red skin, dressed in the manner of a traveling warrior. It is devoid of hair and has a mouth that seems to split the entire head in two, filled with needle-like teeth, and two short horns atop its head.

Air 3 | Earth 4 | Fire 4 | Water 4 | Reflexes 5

Initiative: 5k5 | Attack: Obsidian katana 9k4 (Simple), Talons 8k4 (Simple) | Damage: 7k2 (obsidian katana), 4k4 (talons) | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 4 | Wounds: 40: +5; 80: +10; 120: +15; 160: +20; 200: Out; 240: Dead | Taint Rank: 7

Skills: Athletics 3, Defense 4, Hunting 7, Iaijutsu 5, Jiujutsu 4, Kenjutsu 5, Stealth 4

Special Abilities: Fear 3. Obsidian Daisho – Genso no Oni carries a massive daisho fashioned from obsidian. The blades are spiritually connected to the creature and do not survive its death. If one or both are stolen before death, the Genso no Oni will hunt down the thief to the ends of the earth. Due to its intimate connection to its swords, Genso no Oni may not be targeted with the Disarm Maneuver. Taunts – Genso no Oni perceives the faults and regrets of the human soul and berates those who face it with the most horrific insults imaginable, mocking faith, human decency, and the Code of Bushido. During the first Round of a skirmish, all Rokugani opponents must make a Contested Willpower Roll against it. If they fail, their highest Basic School Rank is effectively reduced by 1 for the duration of the skirmish, denying access to that School Technique and making them one School/Insight Rank lower for Initiative, spell casting, and similar game effects.

### Ianwa no Oni, Dark Bargainer

Ianwa no Oni are extremely rare – Kuni scholars believe there may only be one of these creatures – and those few mortals familiar with its existence are enormously grateful for this. What it lacks in physical power it more than makes up for with its strange ability to form terrible, corrupting pacts with mortals. Those foolish enough to succumb to Ianwa’s demands face worse than death – they face damnation. Ianwa no Oni is rather small, slug-like in appearance, with a long tubular body, two small arms, and a grotesque head. It cannot speak but communicates directly through its mind into the thoughts of those around it. It can teleport almost anywhere within the Shadowlands or the Empire.

When Ianwa no Oni targets a mortal, it appears when the victim is alone and uses its fearful presence to overwhelm the individual, demanding some minor gift or sinful deed. It starts with something simple, then returns days, weeks, or years later with increasingly outrageous and dishonorable demands. The victim gradually becomes more dishonored – and more corrupted by the Taint. Since the Ianwa makes sure to only appear to its chosen victim, the victim will often appear to be mad. Ianwa no Oni is actually a notorious coward: if someone inflicts more than 1 Wound on it with a single attack (difficult, since it is Invulnerable), it will instantly retreat, abandoning its victim.

Air 3 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Awareness 5 | Intelligence 6 | Perception 6

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Claw 2k2 (Complex) | Damage: 3k3 (claw) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 12: +5; 24: +10; 36: +15; 48: Dead | Taint Rank: 7

Skills: Intimidation (Control) 7, Temptation 8

Special Abilities: Dark Demands – If a mortal fails to resist Ianwa’s enhanced Fear effect, he must spend a Void Point each day to resist Ianwa’s demand. If he cannot, he must obey, gaining 1–5 points of Taint each time. Each time Ianwa returns and uses its Fear Enhancement on the same victim, the number of Void Points the victim must spend per day to resist goes up by 1, continuing until the victim is no longer able to resist at all. Fear 5. Fear Enhancement – When facing a single individual, once per encounter the Ianwa no Oni can magnify its Fear effect against that one target to Fear 8. Invulnerable. Teleport – As a Complex Action, may disappear and appear at any other location anywhere within the Shadowlands or Rokugan. Powerful magical wards can block this movement.

### Kamu no Oni, the Killing Maw

The horrifying Kamu no Oni is among the most immediately recognizable of all oni, a nearly mindless killing machine with no obvious sensory organs yet an extremely capable hunter. Atop a powerfully-built torso, the demon’s shoulders and chest split into a massive maw wide enough to bite even the largest Crab samurai in half. Those unfortunate enough to be caught are torn to pieces by its massive arms and then rapidly devoured. A full-grown Kamu no Oni can slaughter and consume an entire Crab patrol in less than two minutes.

Air 2 | Earth 5 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 4 | Strength 6

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Bite 4k4 (Complex), Claw 7k4 (Simple) | Damage: 7k5 (bite), 6k3 (claw) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 50: +5; 75: +10; 100: +15; 125: +20; 150: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Special Abilities: Devour – If a Kamu no Oni controls a Grapple, it may inflict bite damage on the Grappled opponent instead of claw damage. If this damage reduces an opponent to the Out Wound Level, he has been swallowed and will die in the Reactions Stage of the following Round unless somehow pulled free or the Kamu no Oni is killed. Fear 4. Invulnerable.

### Kommei no Oni, Demon of Confusion

Kommei no Oni delight in chaos. In their natural form they resemble gaunt, almost skeletal humans wearing long shapeless robes, but with four-fingered hands tipped with six-inch claws and a second face on the back of their head. The “robe” is actually a loose skin that grows out of their neck. Their joints allow limbs to bend equally forward and backward. These Natural shapechangers steal the souls of victims by breathing out a foul yellow fog impregnated with their own corrupted essence. If a victim dies from the fog, his soul is stolen and the oni can take that victim’s form. When two or more victims are afflicted by the fog at the same time, their souls can be transferred between bodies. Reversing the switch can only be accomplished after the death of the Kommei no Oni.

Air 5 | Earth 5 | Fire 3 | Water 3 | Awareness 6 | Strength 4

Initiative: 7k4 | Attack: Claws 7k3 (Simple) | Damage: 6k3 (Claws) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 10 | Wounds: 20: +5; 40: +10; 60: +15; 80: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Acting 5, Courtier 4, Etiquette 4, Sincerity (Deceit) 5

Special Abilities: All-Around Vision – If a Kommei no Oni is able to expose the eyes on the back of its head, it gains two Free Raises on Investigation (Notice) / Perception rolls to prevent being surprised. Double-Jointed – Suffers no combat penalties for being Prone and can stand with a Free Action. Fear 3. Shapeshifting – As a Complex Action can change its physical form into anyone whose soul it has devoured, also gaining three of the Skills the person knew at the Rank they were known. Spirit Leeching – Can breathe out a foul yellow fog (Simple Action, range 5 feet, lasts rounds equal to the oni’s Air). Those caught must make a Stamina Roll at TN 25 each Round to hold their breath. If a victim inhales, he must roll Willpower at TN 25 during the Reactions Stage each Round. Two total failures means his soul is devoured and he dies instantly, allowing the Kommei no Oni to take his shape thereafter. Spirit Trading – If two or more victims inhale the fog and fail a Willpower roll on the same Round, instead of their souls being devoured they switch places randomly. Each victim retains all Skills and mental Traits but gains the physical Traits of the body they now inhabit. Powerful magic can potentially reverse the process at GM’s discretion, but only after the death of the oni.

### Manesuru no Oni, the Demon of the Dark Mirror

Manesuru no Oni are some of the most deadly foes samurai are ever likely to meet because they force those samurai to fight against foes who are just as well trained and who know their every strength and weakness. In its natural form, Manesuru no Oni are formless masses of black protoplasm, slow-moving and almost defenseless. They spend most of their time lying in ambush, waiting for prey to venture close. When other creatures come within sight, the oni studies them for a time and then spawns protoplasmic constructs that closely resemble them – virtually identical to the creatures they are copied from. The Demon of the Dark Mirror uses these constructs to slay the creatures and then oozes out of hiding to eat the corpses.

Air 1 | Earth 4 | Fire 3 | Water 4 | Awareness 4 | Intelligence 4 | Perception 5

Initiative: 4k1 | Attack: Pseudopod 4k3 (Complex) | Damage: 4k1 (Pseudopod) | Armor TN: 10 | Reduction: 8 | Wounds: 12: +5; 24: +10; 36: +15; 48: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Investigation 3, Stealth (Ambush) 6

Special Abilities: Malleable Form and Color – Can change its shape and color at will, granting three Free Raises on Stealth Skill rolls to hide. Magic Resistance – Can alter its shape to absorb and deflect elemental forces; the demon has two Ranks of the Magic Resistance Advantage. Spawn Dark Mirror – Once the oni has studied a creature using Uncanny Insight, it creates a duplicate out of its own flesh. It can create a maximum number of duplicates equal to its Taint Rank, but cannot copy a specific creature more than once in a twenty-four-hour period. The duplicate has all the target’s physical and mental Traits, Skills, Advantages, Disadvantages, Wounds, and School/Path Techniques (if any). It cannot cast spells, does not have a Void Ring or Void Points, and cannot activate Techniques requiring Void expenditure. It does have Magic Resistance and a Taint Rank equal to the Manesuru no Oni that spawned it. Dark mirrors attack the creature they are copied from first; once that creature is killed they attack anything else that could be a threat. When destroyed, they collapse into black protoplasmic ooze. Uncanny Insight – If the Manesuru no Oni spends two consecutive Complex Actions studying a creature, it can duplicate that creature. If a creature has defenses preventing others from reading its mind, the Manesuru must roll Investigation/Awareness against the target’s Insight Rank x5 to break through.

### Morei no Oni, the Grain Demon

Morei no Oni are fairly harmless by the standards of oni. They appear to be healthy brown trees with leaves that show the barest hint of green, with small white seedpods interspersed among the leaves that closely resemble grains of rice. Grain Demons move very slowly and their claws are not particularly deadly. It is the rice-like seedpods that make these oni a true threat to the Empire. Every night the Morei no Oni can drop up to a thousand seeds from its branches. These seeds are actually the creature’s spawn, and each one has the potential to grow into a full-sized Morei no Oni if dropped on fertile soil. If a living creature somehow ingests a Morei no Oni spawn, the spawn will sprout and eat the creature from the inside – an agonizing death. There are rumors of devious Lost slipping Morei no Oni spawn into bags of rice, allowing them to spread across the Empire.

Air 2 | Earth 2 | Fire 1 | Water 1 | Strength 2

Initiative: 3k2 | Attack: Claws 3k2 (Complex) | Damage: 3k1 (Claws) | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 10 | Wounds: 12: +5; 24: +10; 36: Dead | Taint Rank: 3

Special Abilities: Immobile – Morei no Oni are trees and cannot move. Seed Spawn – Every day the Morei no Oni can drop up to a thousand spawn that look like grains of rice. If a spawn is swallowed, the victim begins suffering 1k1 Wounds per Round (not subject to Reduction). The spawn can be killed if the victim ingests jade, crystal, or jade powder, or if the spell Peace of the Kami is used. Otherwise the damage continues until the victim dies and an adult Morei no Oni sprouts from the corpse.

### Muduro no Oni, the Corrupted Mountain

Muduro no Oni resemble nothing so much as an animated portion of a mountain, and are almost as difficult to kill as the mountains they resemble. They stand nearly fifty feet in height with enormous claws and teeth, and their bodies are covered in sharp rock-like protrusions. An unholy glow radiates from their mouths and eye sockets. Muduro no Oni are simple, unintelligent foes that attack with their claws or try to swallow opponents whole, relying on their rock-like skin to protect them. There are tales of entire mountain ranges in the deep Shadowlands composed of Muduro no Oni, and it is rumored to be possible for these creatures to grow so large they can no longer move, waiting for prey to walk between their cavernous jaws.

Air 3 | Earth 7 | Fire 2 | Water 4 | Agility 3 | Strength 8

Initiative: 6k3 | Attack: Claws 7k3 (Simple), Bite 8k3 (Complex) | Damage: 10k3 (Claws), 10k5 (Bite) | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 20 | Wounds: 100: +5; 150: +10; 200: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Fear 4. Huge. Invulnerable. Swallow Whole – If a Muduro no Oni hits with its Bite attack it may attempt to swallow its victim whole (Contested Strength roll). Swallowed creatures suffer 3k3 Wounds and automatically gain 1 point of Shadowlands Taint during the Reactions Stage of each Round. They can attempt to climb out (Athletics (Climbing) / Strength at TN 30 to reach the mouth; then Strength at TN 25 to open the jaws). A swallowed creature may also attempt to cut a way out with a Small or Medium weapon with a cutting blade; inflicting 20 or more Wounds on the Muduro no Oni’s stomach (which has no Reduction) will cut a hole large enough for escape. A Muduro no Oni may swallow up to three human-sized creatures at a time.

### Nairu no Oni, Scourge of the Skies

Ponderous and reptilian in appearance, the multi-legged Nairu no Oni are extremely fast and agile opponents once they take to the air with their powerful leathery wings. They plague the Crab with airborne tactics during large-scale assaults on the Kaiu Wall. Together with the smaller and more intelligent Sanru no Oni, the Nairu no Oni represent the most numerous and perhaps most dangerous flying demons within the Shadowlands.

Air 3 | Earth 2 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Agility 4 | Strength 4

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Talons 6k4 (Simple) | Damage: 4k4 (talons) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 4 | Wounds: 20: +5; 40: +10; 60: +15; 80: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Diving Attack – A Nairu who makes a diving attack from a height of at least forty feet gains a +1k1 bonus to its attack roll (stacks with any bonus from Full Attack) but after the attack is resolved, the oni is no longer flying and automatically becomes Prone. Fear 2. Invulnerable. Swift 3 (when flying).

### Nosloc no Oni, Vassals of the Demon Lords

The Nosloc no Oni average eight to ten feet in height and are powerfully built, with brilliant red skin, horns atop their heads, and vicious talons. They are exclusively carnivorous and have enormous appetites. They are quite capable of fighting with their claws but prefer to arm themselves with whatever weapons are available, especially heavy weapons taken from fallen Crab warriors. Unlike many oni, Nosloc are capable of speech. The true threat of Nosloc no Oni is their temperament and intellect – they are only slightly less intelligent than the average human, lack the mindless bestial temperament of most other oni, and can fight alongside one another to achieve common goals. In almost every major confrontation between the Shadowlands and the Empire, Nosloc no Oni have comprised a sizeable portion of the rank and file Shadowlands force.

Air 2 | Earth 4 | Fire 3 | Water 4 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 4

Initiative: 5k3 | Attack: Heavy Weapon 7k4 or Claws 6k4 | Damage: 8k2 (heavy weapon) or 5k2 (claws) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 16: +5; 24: +10; 32: +15; 48: +20; 80: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Skills: Battle 2, Defense 2, Heavy Weapons 3, Jiujutsu 3

Special Abilities: Battlefield Acumen – For every other Nosloc no Oni within fifty feet, the demon gains a bonus of +1 to the total of all attack rolls, damage rolls, and Battle Skill Rolls. Fear 2. Invulnerable.

### Pekkle no Oni, the Pretender

Of all the infiltration threats posed by the Shadowlands, perhaps none are more successful and dangerous than the Pekkle no Oni – consummate deceivers capable of maintaining elaborate deceptions for months or years on end. The entities known as Pekkle are mischievous shapeshifting spirits native to Sakkaku, the Realm of Mischief. During the First War the fallen Kami Fu Leng seized a large number of Pekkle and forced them into his service, infusing them with the Taint and effectively transforming them into oni. The transformed spirits became Pekkle no Oni, vastly more malicious and dangerous than their trickster brethren, bringing cruelty and death on mortals or serving as spies and saboteurs. Pekkle no Oni frequently masquerade as children, although they are capable of appearing as males or females of any age up to roughly 30 years old.

Air 5 | Earth 3 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Willpower 6 | Intelligence 5 | Perception 5

Initiative: 5k5 | Attack: Claws 4k2 (Complex) | Damage: 4k3 (claws) | Armor TN: 30 | Wounds: 20: +5; 30: +10; 40: +15; 65: Out; 80: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Skills: Acting (Clan, Gender, Profession) 6, Courtier (Manipulation) 3, Etiquette 3, Sincerity 5, Temptation 4

Special Abilities: Hidden Darkness – A Pekkle no Oni’s Taint cannot be detected by any known means. Its blood is an inky black color, so injuring one is an effective way to expose its nature. Magical effects that non-specifically target the Taint (area-effect spells or wards) do not affect Pekkle no Oni. The only anti-Taint spell that does affect a Pekkle no Oni is a Jade spell which directly targets it, such as Jade Strike. Retributive Taint – When a Pekkle no Oni is killed, it explodes in a burst of inky black foulness in a ten-foot radius. All creatures within the area must roll Earth at TN 30 or gain 1–10 points of Taint. Shadowlands Power: Blackened Claws. Shapeshifting – As a Complex Action, may change form to that of a human being of either gender and any age from infant through young adult (upper limit approximately 30 years).

### Quiet Death

The entity called the Quiet Death is a minor oni, a nearly mindless hunter that seeks out solitary strangers and consumes them utterly. It is a formless mass of soft white tissue resembling cotton or plush cloth that draws itself along the ground or flows across smooth surfaces like water. It tracks prey by heat, preferring to feed on humans because of their size and lack of natural defenses. If it detects enough heat to indicate multiple people, it will not attack but will creep into the smallest available space and wait. When it finds suitable prey, the Quiet Death strikes quickly, flowing up the individual’s body until it reaches and envelopes the head. Suffocation comes quickly, and then the beast drains the life from the still-warm body, leaving victims dead and slightly desiccated.

Air 1 | Earth 2 | Fire 1 | Water 4 | Reflexes 3 | Stamina 5 | Agility 4

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Touch 4k4 (Complex) | Damage: 4k1 (touch) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 10 (20 against cutting/slashing weapons) | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 120: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Skills: Hunting 4, Stealth 5

Special Abilities: Amorphous – Contains no vital organs, consisting exclusively of a soft flowing jelly-like substance; reason for the high Reduction against cutting weapons. Suffocation – May attempt to suffocate a victim by Grappling him (rolls 8k4 to initiate or control a Grapple). When controlling a Grapple, may inflict damage as a Complex Action, starting at 3k3 and increasing by +1k1 each successive Round it maintains control. If it loses and later regains control, damage begins again at 3k3. Susceptibility – Particularly susceptible to fire, which rapidly dehydrates and combusts its flesh. Damage from any source that includes fire inflicts an additional +2k2 damage to the Quiet Death.

### Ryokaku no Oni, the Demon of Purity

Ryokaku no Oni trouble samurai who encounter them because they defy the typical traits one expects to find in an oni – they seem to have a sense of honor and tradition that closely parallels that of the samurai of Rokugan. They closely resemble samurai in appearance: tall, fiendishly handsome, appearing to be lightly armored men wearing ornate daisho. The only physical feature distinguishing them from normal samurai is the two mouths with which they smile disarmingly. Ryokaku no Oni are often found in the company of trolls, and every decade or so they feel the need to seek a human mate to carry on their bloodlines. They are extremely discerning when choosing a mate, for only the most pure and noble human women are worthy. When the Ryokaku no Oni has chosen its mate, it spirits her away to its estate in the Shadowlands and tests her virtue. If the woman is found “pure” (virginal, 6.0 Honor or higher, and with no unpleasant Disadvantages), the Ryokaku no Oni will marry her – and horribly, some ladies have actually fallen in love with the charming demon. If the woman is found wanting she is generally the dinner at the marriage feast.

Air 4 | Earth 4 | Fire 4 | Water 4 | Honor: 3.5

Initiative: 8k4 | Attack: Claws 7k4 (Simple), Katana 9k4 (Simple) | Damage: 4k2 (Claws), 7k2 (Katana) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 8 (4 against crystal) | Wounds: 16: +5; 32: +10; 48: +15; 72: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Skills: Courtier 3, Etiquette 3, Iaijutsu (Assessment, Focus) 4, Kenjutsu (Katana) 5, Sincerity 5, Temptation (Seduction) 5

Special Abilities: Duel Bound – If challenged to an iaijutsu duel, will always accept and duel honorably, allowing no minions to interrupt. For dueling purposes, the Ryokaku no Oni is considered to have a Void equal to its Taint Rank (though it still has no Void Points) and is considered to be Insight Rank 4. Will only duel to the death. Fear 3. Insidious Beauty – Ryokaku no Oni are very handsome and are considered to have the Dangerous Beauty Advantage. Invulnerability. The Black Fog of Purity – As a Complex Action, may change itself and one other person it is touching into a black fog that travels as swiftly as the wind (minimum speed Water Rank 10, faster with strong winds or storms). In fog-form both are completely incorporeal and may only be damaged by spells. If the other creature is unwilling, the Ryokaku no Oni can force the transformation by winning a Contested Air roll. If killed while in fog-form, any passengers are trapped in that form for all eternity.

### Shikage no Oni, Many-Armed Death

Shikage no Oni are a foul combination of spider and human: thick corpse-white skin, a bald almost human-like head, and a nearly skeletal human torso with unnaturally long arms. Four legs sprout from the lower half of the torso, each splitting again at the knee to end in viciously clawed hands. They have no true teeth, but a pair of four-inch-long fangs and a four-foot prehensile tongue tipped with a razor sharp stinger used to inject prey with venom – either lethal or mind-breaking. The tongue is also used to project thick black silk-like webbing to entrap and store prey. Shikage no Oni prefer to ambush, creating lairs filled with elaborate traps of foul webbing, seeking out weak mind-broken creatures to lure stronger victims in. Once prey is trapped, it paralyzes them and keeps them around until ready to feed, stabbing its tongue into the hapless creature and sucking out their innards.

Air 4 | Earth 4 | Fire 4 | Water 4 | Willpower 5 | Agility 5 | Perception 6

Initiative: 8k4 | Attack: Claws 7k5 (Simple) or Tongue-Stinger 8k5 (Complex) | Damage: 5k3 (Claws) or 4k2 + poison (Tongue-Stinger) | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 8 | Wounds: 24: +5; 48: +10; 72: +15; 96: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Demon Silk – Can project black webbing from its mouth. A creature who touches it is instantly Entangled (Strength Roll at TN 15 to break free, TN increasing by 5 per subsequent roll to a maximum of TN 30). Can also shoot it as a ranged attack (attack roll 7k4 ignoring armor’s effect on Armor TN, range twenty feet). Fear 3. Invulnerability. Mind-Breaking Poison – Victim immediately loses 1 Rank of Willpower; during the Reactions Stage each Round, must make a TN 20 Stamina Roll or lose another Rank. Continues until the Stamina Roll succeeds or Willpower reaches zero, at which point the victim obeys all commands (even suicidal ones). Lasts 24 hours. Multiple doses increase TN by 5 per dose. Paralyzing Poison – Victim immediately loses 1 Rank of Reflexes; during the Reactions Stage each Round, must make a TN 20 Stamina Roll or lose another Rank. Continues until the Stamina Roll succeeds or Reflexes reaches zero, at which point the victim is paralyzed. Lasts 12 hours. Multiple doses increase TN by 5 per dose. Poison Constitution – Immune to the effects of all poisons. Wall Climbing – Can climb on any surface that is not extraordinarily slick at the same speed as walking on the ground.

### Shokansuru’s Brood (Overview)

Shokansuru’s Brood refers to a quartet of extremely powerful oni crafted by an individual known as The Shokansuru, called by some the Master of Demons. Each of these four demons was once a mortal ally of a man named Isawa Shokan, who was corrupted by the influence of the infamous Bloodspeaker sorcerer Jama Suru. He killed his four friends, harvested their souls to become immortal, then centuries later discovered the Forgotten Temple of Fu Leng – a place where the boundaries between the mortal realm and the Realm of Evil were so thin as to not exist. Here, Shokansuru used his friends’ souls to craft four oni, each one fully incarnated in the mortal realm rather than existing in both realms simultaneously. This granted them enormous power, but at the cost of mortality – if they should be killed, they would be destroyed forever, with no chance to return to life again like other oni.

### Hasaiki no Oni, the Burning Sea

Hasaiki no Oni is something of a middle child within the Brood, less intelligent than Sentei and Yojireju, less powerful than Munemitsu, but with astonishing leaping ability and the power to vomit vast gouts of extremely volatile acid that can pit metal and dissolve stone. It walks hunched over on extremely powerful legs that belie its true speed.

Air 3 | Earth 6 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Agility 3 | Strength 6

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Bite 7k7 (Complex), Stomp 7k3 (Simple), Vomit 3k3 (Complex) | Damage: 6k6 (Bite), 8k6 (Stomp) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 32: +5; 48: +10; 64: +15; 100: Out; 200: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Special Abilities: Fear 3. Huge. Invulnerable. Leaping – As a Complex Move Action, can make a massive leap, passing over obstacles up to 25 feet tall and moving a total distance up to its Water Ring x30 in feet. Regeneration – Heals 5 Wounds during the Reactions Stage of each Round until dead. Vomit – Can vomit a massive gout of extremely volatile acid (max range 50 feet, ignores armor’s effect on Armor TN). The acid inflicts 4k4 Wounds per Round and persists for five Rounds or until washed away with ample water. The acid will not destroy folded steel but can erode metal plates to uselessness over five Rounds.

### Munemitsu no Oni, the Earth Breaker

Munemitsu no Oni possesses greater physical power than the other members of Shokansuru’s Brood but is more feral and bestial. It plods on four massive legs with a trio of horns from its head and additional horns on its jaw and forelegs. The demon tends to trample opponents into oblivion, although if an enemy truly arouses its bestial ire it will attempt to gore them with its horns and consume them once torn asunder.

Air 2 | Earth 7 | Fire 1 | Water 5 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 4 | Strength 8

Initiative: 4k2 | Attack: Gore 6k4 (Complex), Trample 4k4 (Simple) | Damage: 8k6 (Gore), 6k4 (Trample) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 6 | Wounds: 32: +3; 64: +5; 96: +10; 128: +15; 160: +20; 224: Dead | Taint Rank: 7

Special Abilities: Fear 3. Gore – Opponents struck with a gore attack are stuck on the tusks and unable to move unless they pull themselves free with a Strength Roll at TN 20, which inflicts an additional 3k2 damage. Munemitsu can trap up to three opponents in this way. Huge. Invulnerable. Trample – Opponents struck with Munemitsu’s Trample attack are rendered Prone.

### Sentei no Oni, the Many-Legged Death

Possibly the most powerful of the Brood and certainly the most resilient, Sentei no Oni resembles nothing so much as a gigantic centipede with noticeable humanoid features, its length arcing up to create a torso-like section. Well-armored and inspiring near-supernatural terror, its most dangerous ability is incredible regenerative capability that allows it to survive even the most devastating combats. It has been thought destroyed many times, but in every instance it re-grew its body from remnants – in some cases incredibly small pieces – and it is not known whether Sentei no Oni can actually be killed permanently.

Air 2 | Earth 6 | Fire 4 | Water 4 | Reflexes 4

Initiative: 6k4 | Attack: Bite 6k4 (Complex), Talons 4k4 (Simple) | Damage: 5k5 (bite), 4k4 (talons) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 30: +5; 60: +10; 120: +15; 180: “Dead” | Taint Rank: 6

Special Abilities: Fear 4. Huge. Invulnerable. Superior Regeneration – Regains 30 Wounds per hour. If the oni is killed, regeneration does not begin for one day, then resumes at the normal hourly rate.

### Yojireju no Oni, the Soul Drinker

Yojireju no Oni is a hideous mockery of a samurai: roughly the same shape as the average Rokugani but taller and thinner, as if a normal body had been stretched beyond the point of breaking. Where a head might be is a series of four tentacles, and in its abdomen it bears a fanged maw, mirrored by two smaller maws on each of its palms. While many demons inspire fear, this one inspires only revulsion. Its insidious nature is such that it consumes its victims not simply physically, but their souls as well.

Air 3 | Earth 3 | Fire 3 | Water 3 | Reflexes 5 | Agility 5

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Claws 6k5 (Simple) | Damage: 5k3 (claws) | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 20: +3; 40: +5; 60: +10; 80: +15; 100: Dead | Taint Rank: 7

Special Abilities: Corpse Absorption – Can absorb the energy and material of the recently dead. The beast can spend two consecutive Complex Actions to fully absorb any corpse dead less than an hour. When done, the oni gains a bonus to one Ring equal to the Insight Rank of the individual killed (animals and creatures without Insight Ranks are considered Rank 1). This bonus applies to the Ring which was highest in the deceased individual, and lasts for a full day. Fear 3. Invulnerable. Soul Absorption – When the oni kills a human opponent, the two must make a Contested Insight Rank / Willpower roll. If the demon is victorious, the soul is consumed and the individual does not pass on to the next spirit realm. Yojireju no Oni permanently gains one Rank in each of its Rings each time it devours a soul.

### Sodatsu no Oni, Shugenja’s Bane

Sodatsu no Oni are a frightening mass of dark slimy protoplasm that appears to have eyes and mouths swirling and moving within it, often spanning twenty-five feet. Because they are simple masses of protoplasm they can squeeze through almost any opening. Despite their composition they are quite intelligent, understanding the language of Rokugan and several others, though they have no way to speak any language. In battle the Sodatsu no Oni forms large pseudopods and flails at its enemies. Its membrane is remarkably durable and can turn aside all but the most well-crafted weapons. These powers make the Sodatsu no Oni formidable, but it does not show its true strength until a shugenja casts magic at it – when a spell is cast at the Sodatsu no Oni, it absorbs the magical energy and turns it to its own advantage, often hurling the elemental energy back on the shugenja who cast the spell.

Air 4 | Earth 6 | Fire 4 | Water 4 | Reflexes 5 | Strength 6

Initiative: 8k4 | Attack: Pseudopods 8k4 (Simple) | Damage: 6k4 (Pseudopods) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 15 | Wounds: 40: +5; 80: +10; 120: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Fear 5. Huge. Malleable – May squeeze through any opening that water can flow through. Shugenja’s Bane – When a spell is cast at a Sodatsu no Oni, it absorbs the elemental magic, causing the spell to have no effect. The oni must instantly take a Free Action to use the kami’s energy in one of three ways: (1) fire a bolt of Tainted magical energy at an enemy within fifty feet (attack roll 4k4, DR equal to the Mastery Level of the absorbed spell); (2) heal a number of Wounds equal to 3 times the Mastery Level of the spell; or (3) increase its Armor TN by 3 times the spell’s Mastery Level for the next three rounds (this effect can stack with itself).

### Tasu no Oni, Plague of Flesh

A living blight upon the Shadowlands, Tasu no Oni are relentlessly aggressive creatures who attack any living foe they find – sometimes even other oni or Shadowlands creatures, even the Lost. They desire to be killed because doing so allows them to fulfill their one driving urge: to reproduce. Tasu no Oni resemble huge bulbous cockroaches whose shells are covered in large membranous sacs. They are generally rather easily slain, but when killed the membranous sacs rupture and spill forth newborn Tasu no Oni, each about a foot in length. These creatures can grow to maturity in as little as three days and can produce more of their own kind within two weeks of their “birth.” Because of the speed with which they reproduce, there are entire regions of the Shadowlands infested with Tasu no Oni, and thus far the Crab have not found a way to destroy the adults without prompting the reproductive cycle. The only way to stop them from multiplying is to kill the newborns before they reach maturity.

Air 1 | Earth 3 | Fire 1 | Water 3 | Reflexes 3 | Agility 4

Initiative: 3k3 | Attack: Leg 4k4 (Simple) or Mandibles 4k4 (Complex) | Damage: 3k2 (Leg) or 5k3 (Mandibles) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 20: +5; 40: +10; 60: Dead | Taint Rank: 4

Special Abilities: Fear 3. Spawn – Upon its death, a Tasu no Oni immediately releases 2k2 spawn, roughly a foot in length with little means of self-defense (all Rings at 1, Armor TN 15, 12 Wounds). The creatures instinctively scatter, moving only with a Complex Move Action (up to 30 feet). They have Stealth 7 and will try to disappear into underbrush, mountains, caves, or other suitable terrain.

### Utogu no Oni, the Endless Hunger

Utogu no Oni kills for the most primal reason of all: to sate its never-ending hunger. Fortunately rare, these truly massive beasts burn from within with a hunger that can never be truly fulfilled. When confronted with any kind of living creature, the hunger blazes like a wildfire, driving the beast nearly mad until it attacks anything that moves. Squads of Hiruma scouts have been known to drive the beasts into such fury that they consume boulders, earth, and even other oni in an attempt to reach and devour them. Utogu no Oni resemble extremely large rhinoceroses, with horns sprouting not only from their snouts but also all along the spine and in various other places. They have four eyes and four nostrils, and two rows of teeth.

Air 2 | Earth 5 | Fire 1 | Water 5 | Agility 4

Initiative: 3k2 | Attack: Bite 6k4 (Complex), Charge 6k5 (Complex), Trample 4k4 (Simple) | Damage: 5k5 (bite), 9k4 (charge), 5k3 (trample) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 8 | Wounds: 60: +5; 90: +10; 120: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Charge – If in the Full Attack Posture, can move up to its Water Ring x10 and then make the Charge attack. Devour – If the demon inflicts 30 or more Wounds with its Bite attack, the opponent has been caught in the beast’s maw (considered Entangled). On its next Turn the oni attempts to swallow its prey (Contested Strength Roll). If the oni succeeds, the victim has been swallowed and suffers 5k5 Wounds during each subsequent Reactions Stage until dead. There is no limit to how many victims the Utogu no Oni can devour. Fear 3. Huge. Invulnerable. Trample – A successful Trample attack renders an opponent Prone. If the attack roll exceeds the opponent’s Armor TN by 10 or more, the opponent is Dazed as well.

### Uzaki no Oni, the Demon Commander

While the Oni Lords are the undisputed rulers of oni-kind, they are not necessarily good battlefield commanders. When the creatures of the Shadowlands mass for an invasion of the Empire they often look to the Uzaki no Oni to guide them. Uzaki no Oni are intelligent and exceptionally talented battlefield commanders, wringing every bit of knowledge about battlefield tactics from captured samurai and sharing that knowledge with others of their kind. They are as tall as ogres, with jet-black skin, flame-red hair, horns from their heads, and mouths full of sharp fangs. They generally wear armor reminiscent of that of a samurai and wield a large obsidian katana that bursts into flame when drawn. Legends say that if you best an Uzaki no Oni in battle and are foolish enough to allow it to live, it will hunt you down, having memorized the way you fight, to prove it is the better warrior.

Air 5 | Earth 5 | Fire 5 | Water 5 | Awareness 6 | Intelligence 6 | Perception 6

Initiative: 9k5 | Attack: Claws 9k5 (Complex), Obsidian Katana 10k5 (Simple) | Damage: 6k2 (Claws), 9k3 + 1k1 fire damage (Obsidian Katana) | Armor TN: 30 | Reduction: 8 | Wounds: 16: +5; 32: +10; 48: +15; 72: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Skills: Battle (Mass Combat, Skirmish) 5, Defense 5, Iaijutsu 5, Jiujutsu 4, Kenjutsu (Obsidian Katana) 5, Lore (Rokugani Tactics) 5

Special Abilities: Commander’s Voice – Long ago the Uzaki no Oni made a bargain with the kansen of the air. Its voice can be heard anywhere on a battlefield it wishes. Eternal Enmity – Uzaki no Oni never forget the tactics an opponent uses. If someone defeats the Uzaki no Oni on the battlefield (in either a skirmish or a mass battle), the oni will learn from the defeat. The next time the oni encounters the person who defeated it, it gains a +1k1 bonus on all rolls against that foe. Fear 3. Huge. Invulnerability. Leader of Oni – Other Shadowlands creatures look to the Uzaki no Oni for leadership; all Uzaki no Oni have the Leadership Advantage. Learn from Your Enemies – Some Uzaki no Oni may actually know one or two School Techniques from Rokugani bushi schools (never above Rank Two, and cannot use Techniques requiring Void expenditure). Tactician – Uzaki no Oni have the Tactician Advantage.

### Wakeru no Oni, the Demon of the Endless Horde

Wakeru no Oni are not particularly imposing – they stand the same height as an average samurai, are gaunt with brownish-gray skin, and move with an apelike slouch. They are not particularly aggressive and are actually fairly harmless… until threatened. When threatened, a Wakeru no Oni explodes into a slavering whirlwind of claws, always using Full Attack and paying no attention to defense. It is when the Wakeru no Oni is slain that it becomes truly dangerous: when killed, it splits into two smaller versions of itself that continue to fight, which when killed split as well, continuing until the Wakeru no Oni is too small to be threatening. The Crab believe the first Wakeru no Oni was an attempt to summon an oni that would instantly regenerate from any wound – an attempt that went horribly wrong.

Air 2 | Earth 5 | Fire 2 | Water 2 | Reflexes 5 | Agility 5 | Strength 5

Initiative: 8k5 | Attack: Claws 6k5 (Simple) | Damage: 6k2 (Claws) | Armor TN: 20 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 50: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Special Abilities: Endless Horde – When a Wakeru no Oni takes enough damage to kill it, it does not die. Instead it splits into two smaller versions of itself that act on the oni’s next turn. The smaller Wakeru no Oni reduce all physical statistics by one Rank and their Wounds decrease by 5, but their Armor TN increases by 5 to reflect their smaller size. They retain the same Initiative score; attack and damage rolls are each reduced by 1k1 (to a minimum of 1k1). The Demon of the Endless Horde will continue to spawn duplicates until its physical Traits are reduced to 1. If a spawn is slain when its physical Traits are at 1 it will not duplicate itself again. Duplicates grow to full strength and size within a few months. Fear 2. Heedless Rage – When threatened the Wakeru no Oni fights with heedless abandon, paying no attention to defense, since destruction only makes it more powerful. A Wakeru no Oni always uses Full Attack in combat.

### Wanizame no Oni, the Finned Maw

The mysterious super-predators known as Wanizame no Oni are an enigma even to the most ardent Kuni scholars due to their aquatic nature. They bear a strong resemblance to an extremely large hammerhead shark, but even a passing familiarity with a mundane shark allows an observer to perceive the oni’s proportions are slightly off in a deeply disturbing way. Far more disturbing is the feature that cemented its identity as an oni: at the base of the dorsal fin is a blank, staring human face – and when the oni is bearing down on prey, the face screams aloud whenever it emerges from the water. Wanizame no Oni are usually solitary hunters, although they have demonstrated the ability to cooperate to bring down larger targets including large Crab vessels.

Air 2 | Earth 2 | Fire 1 | Water 4 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 4

Initiative: 4k4 | Attack: Bite 6k4 (Complex) | Damage: 4k4 (Bite) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 3 | Wounds: 15: +5; 30: +10; 45: +15; 60: Dead | Taint Rank: 4

Special Abilities: Aquatic – An aquatic creature that cannot leave the water; suffers no movement penalties for water and does not need to make Athletics rolls to swim. Blood Scent – Can smell blood in the water within five miles; make a Perception Roll against a TN of 30 minus the total number of Wounds suffered by the bleeding creature. If successful, the oni knows the bleeder’s exact location. Fear 2. Feeding Frenzy – If a target within fifty feet of the oni’s location has lost more than one Wound Rank, the Wanizame no Oni gains a bonus of +2k2 on attack rolls made against that target.

### Oni Lord Spawn

The Oni Lords are far beyond the ability of most mortals to defeat. Barring an army, only an extremely capable group of highly experienced samurai would dare to confront an Oni Lord. Their presence is felt through the existence of their spawn, which closely resemble their Oni Lord progenitor but are smaller and have only a fraction of the power. The following are spawn of several notable Oni Lords.

### Akuma no Oni Spawn

The spawn of Akuma no Oni are rare but generally more powerful than the spawn of other Oni Lords. Akuma no Oni takes great care when creating spawn, allowing them to amass power within the Shadowlands before releasing them. They are vaguely humanoid demons with a long tail, three massive claws and a viciously hooked thumb on each hand, a combination of chitin, spines, and armored plates covering the body, three malevolent yellow eyes, and three tongues hanging from their toothy mouths, dripping burning saliva. They are skilled at manipulating and controlling other denizens of the Shadowlands, using them as pawns in destructive plans.

Air 5 | Earth 5 | Fire 4 | Water 5 | Intelligence 5

Initiative: 9k5 | Attack: Claws 8k4 (Simple), Burning Tongues 8k4 (Free) | Damage: 7k3 (Claws), 2k2 (Burning Tongues) | Armor TN: 40 | Reduction: 10 | Wounds: 25: +5; 50: +10; 75: +15; 100: Dead | Taint Rank: 5

Skills: Battle (Mass Battle) 4, Temptation 4

Special Abilities: Burning Saliva – When the burning tongues touch flesh, they leave burning saliva in the wound. During the Reactions Stage of every Round after the tongues hit, that foe takes 1k1 fire damage. This lasts for 10 rounds or until the saliva is washed away with vinegar or alcohol (simple water will not wash it away). Fear 4. Huge. Invulnerability. Multiple Tongues – Can attack with all three tongues in the same Round, once with each tongue. This is a special exception to the rule that each type of Free Action can only be taken once per Round.

### Kyoso no Oni Spawn

Kyoso no Oni has always been fiercely independent and her spawn are no different, often venturing off to pursue their own goals. They are slightly over eight feet tall with deep red skin. Their torso is that of an unclad human female with four claw-tipped arms, while their lower body resembles a snake with small spines along its ridge. Their face is smooth except for a pair of blackened pits where eyes would normally be, and their scalp sprouts red tentacles instead of hair. Kyoso no Oni spawn fight primarily by hurling bolts of black fire from their claws, searing the very soul of those they hit. They have spell-casting abilities as well – an unusual quality for an oni – and even Kuni scholars are at a loss to explain how they are able to compel obedience from the kami.

Air 4 | Earth 4 | Fire 4 | Water 4 | Reflexes 5 | Strength 5

Initiative: 9k5 | Attack: Claws 5k4 (Simple), Black Fire 9k5 (Free) | Damage: 4k3 (Claws), 3k2 (Black Fire) | Armor TN: 35 | Reduction: 10 | Wounds: 16: +5; 32: +10; 48: +15; 72: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Special Abilities: Black Fire – The Kyoso no Oni spawn may hurl bolts of black fire at any foe within fifty feet. These blasts of soul-searing power ignore the effects of armor on the target’s Armor TN and ignore Reduction. Each time a foe is hit by black fire, he must make a Void roll at TN 15 or lose one Void Point. If the bolt takes away his last Void Point (or he has none), he falls unconscious for one hour; only an effect that causes him to regain at least one Void Point will immediately awaken him. Fear 3. Feed Upon the Soul – If a Kyoso no Oni spawn kills a foe, she instantly heals Wounds equal to 5 x the Insight Rank of the enemy killed. Invulnerability. Magical Talent – A Kyoso no Oni spawn can cast Fire and Earth spells as though it is a Rank 3 shugenja with no Affinity or Deficiency, instinctively and without scrolls. It cannot cast any spell with the Jade keyword. Multiple Arms – May hurl its black fire up to four times in the same Round (once for each claw). Cannot make Claw attacks with any claws that hurled black fire in the same Round.

### Shikibu no Oni Spawn

Shikibu no Oni is the least physically imposing of the Oni Lords and his spawn maintain that tendency. In their natural form they resemble small misshapen dwarves with mouths full of sharpened teeth, dark orange skin, and deep blue hair that always looks as if it is being stirred by invisible winds. It is not until a Shikibu no Oni spawn is killed that it becomes truly dangerous: upon death the spirit of the oni separates from its body and seeks out the corpse of a human, inhabiting that corpse, restoring it to life, and gaining the memories of the previous resident. Over time the Shikibu no Oni spawn reshapes the body into its own form, a process that takes several weeks. If found in its lair there will usually be three or four corpses laid out, ready for future inhabitation. The only way to truly destroy a Shikibu no Oni spawn is to slay it with no human corpses nearby and force it to remain in spirit form long enough that it fades away.

Air 4 | Earth 3 | Fire 4 | Water 3 | Willpower 5

Initiative: 7k4 | Attack: Claws 6k4 (Simple) | Damage: 5k2 (Claws) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 12: +5; 24: +10; 36: +15; 48: Dead | Taint Rank: 4

Skills: Acting 5, Sincerity (Deceit) 5

Special Abilities: Corpse Inhabitation – When a Shikibu no Oni spawn is slain its spirit separates and can inhabit a nearby human corpse (within 50 feet), returning to life during the Reactions Stage of the Round following its death. If a prepared corpse is available it uses it immediately; otherwise it takes three full Rounds to inhabit a non-prepared corpse. If there are no corpses within range the spirit can travel 50 feet per Round and may remain in spirit form for a total of Rounds equal to its Willpower x5. If it cannot find a corpse within that time, its spirit fades away, returning to Jigoku. When inhabiting a body it restores the body to full health, gains the physical Traits, Advantages, and Disadvantages, and gains the memories of the previous inhabitant, gaining up to two Ranks in every Skill the dead person knew. After three weeks the body is reshaped into the Shikibu no Oni spawn’s natural form and the oni loses the memories of its previous host. Fear 2. Preserve Corpse – Shikibu no Oni can preserve corpses for later inhabitation by spending an hour infusing a small amount of their own essence into the body, preserving it for a month. Swift 2.

### Tsuburu no Oni Spawn

Tsuburu no Oni spawn are forever hungry and devour anything they can get their grubby hands on, sent out into the Shadowlands to collect souls to feed their master’s eternal hunger. They look like enormously fat naked humans with livid pink-purple skin, greasy black hair, and boils covering their back and belly. Their mouth is as wide as their head and they can dislocate their jaw to swallow whatever will fit within. Their eyes glow dimly with a reddish light. They move slowly on their grossly fat legs, wobbling as if they cannot catch their balance – causing many creatures to underestimate them on first glimpse. When a Tsuburu no Oni Spawn truly wishes to eat something, its prey cannot escape, for it simply teleports next to its erstwhile meal and devours it. When a creature is slain in the Tsuburu’s stomach, its soul is captured and appears as a new boil on the back or belly of the oni. When the Tsuburu believes it has captured enough souls, it travels back to its Oni Lord and feeds them to it.

Air 1 | Earth 1 | Fire 3 | Water 1 | Stamina 7 | Strength 7

Initiative: 4k1 | Attack: Grab 8k3 (Simple) | Damage: 7k2 (Grab) | Armor TN: 15 | Reduction: 15 | Wounds: 40: +5; 80: +10; 120: +15; 160: Dead | Taint Rank: 6

Special Abilities: Fear 5. Huge. Invulnerability. Swallow Whole – If a Tsuburu no Oni spawn successfully hits someone with its Grab attack, it may opt to hold onto its prey (treated as a Grapple with 5 ranks of Jiujutsu for maintaining it). If it maintains control at the start of its Turn, it may as a Free Action stuff the Grappled victim down its throat. Those inside suffer 2k2 Wounds and gain 1 point of Shadowlands Taint during the Reactions Stage of each Round. Those trapped may not do anything that requires physical effort – they simply scream. The soul of a creature slain within a Tsuburu no Oni spawn’s stomach becomes one of the many moving lesions dotting its back and belly, soon to be food for the Oni Lord itself. Teleport – As a Simple Action, may teleport to any location they can see. This counts as having moved their maximum movement for the Round.

### Yuhmi no Oni, Flesh of the Dark Lord

During a failed assault on the Imperial City, Daigotsu lost an arm in combat with the Imperial heir Toturi Tsudao. His follower Omoni, the so-called Sculptor of Flesh, somehow acquired the decaying remnant of his lord’s defeat: the severed arm. The Dark Lord’s power and corruption ensured the arm endured long after it was thought destroyed, and Omoni used it to privately attempt what he had never done before – crafting an oni. The creature that grew quickly became terrible in countenance and power: a grossly oversized human torso atop a motley mess of crab-like or spider-like legs, with small vestigial legs sprouting off of its grotesquely oversized arms. Its face is covered in natural insect-like armor that resembles a mempo. Yuhmi no Oni is a singular entity, possessed of significant physical power and a unique quality – it released a single spawn that appears completely human in every way, wearing a mempo that closely resembles the armor covering the oni’s face. This spawn, now known as Daigotsu Yuhmi, is an incredibly gifted warrior with strength and speed beyond the merely human.

Air 2 | Earth 4 | Fire 2 | Water 3 | Reflexes 4 | Agility 4 | Strength 6

Initiative: 4k3 | Attack: Claw 6k4 (Simple), Mai Chong 8k4 (Complex) | Damage: 6k2 (claw), 6k3 (mai chong) | Armor TN: 25 | Reduction: 5 | Wounds: 40: +5; 80: +10; 120: +15; 160: Dead | Taint Rank: 8

Skills: Athletics 2, Jiujutsu 2, Spears 4

Special Abilities: Fear 4. Huge. Invulnerable. Mai Chong – Yuhmi no Oni wields a mai chong, a highly specialized spear created and utilized by the long-extinct Boar Clan. Although it generally prefers melee, the beast can throw the mai chong with the same attack roll as listed for its melee attack. Singular Spawn – Yuhmi no Oni can create a single spawn that appears human in every respect save for the armored plates covering its face (which resemble a mempo, preventing detection). The spawn is the equivalent of an Insight Rank 4 human and possesses School Rank 4 in a randomly determined Lost or Spider Clan Basic School. The spawn may act completely independently, although the oni is aware of everything that happens to it. If the spawn is ever killed, the oni may create a new spawn within one week of the demise. The spawn are incapable of human speech.

